Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



\»>^/^/^ rI^3A 









a " 



f 1 . 



I 

r 






;, ..^ * ^*-ca6.,,^eii«fe,.. ^ 



I ^^ 



I „. V 



t - •• 






i 



'i 



'i' 



% 




■ < 

I 

1 



1 






1 

,1 






'*r - 



■■ \ 



' •^^;:;^■; . 



1 






*-■., 



-J 

■J 



■» 



Sf, 




:"■• .-. ••«* ■■ •* •5#'- *•» 



MEMOIR 



OF 



JAMES BRAINERD TATLOR 






JOHN HOLT RICE, D. D. 

AlTD 

BENJAMIN HOLT RICE, D. D. 



SECOND STEREOTYPE EDITION, 
KSTHED VmUER TBE lAKOntN OF THE ■URTIYINO COMPILBR. 



FDBLISHID BY 

THE AMERICAN TRACT SOCIETY, 
180 HAStAU-ITlUaT, 1IBW*Y011K. 



2>. FimbMWf Pirlater. 




J /«^/ 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in tlie year 183S| by 
Knowlbs Tatlor, in the Clerk's Office of the District Coart 
of the Southern District of New- York. 

Rlffht of publbbing transferred to American Tract Society. 



oov«a v«s. 



CHAPTER I. 



EARLY LIFE, TILL COMMEHCIirG ITUDT. 

Birth, childhood, and early youth— enten a itore in New- 
York— conyerfion— labors inStibbath School — efforts for 
good of others— sees a Missionary saU for India— contem- 
plates preparing for the Ministry— consults his parents- 
decision to consecrate himself to this work— correspond- 
ence with friends on the subject— determines on a tiio- 
rough course of preparation 9 



CHAPTER U. 



FIRST TWO TEARS IN ACADEMY. 



Temptations resisted— exposure to sudden death— deserip- 
tion of the school— anticipations of the ministry— daily 
study of the Bible— establishes a weekly prayer-meeting, 
connected with a Bible Class— Bible Class of Young La- 
dies in LawrenccTille— labors ''from house to house *'— ttf- 
forts for the salvation of his parents and relatiyes— la- 
iBents his sinfulness— topics for meditation vod d«) Q 



CONTENTS. 

• 

thaiikfgiTfaig^N«w year*! letter to hif paranti— cfforte 
for other relatiyei— letter to liii mother— to a friend pre- 
paring for the miniitry— obligation to present niefulneff 
— accompaniei Major Ridge to Cornwall— letter to an 
aged clergynum— to hit parent!, 35 



CHAPTER lU. 

C01IPLSTI05 OF HIS COVBfX IV TBS ACADIMT. 

Aspirations for iacreaee of holiness— letter of aekaewledg. 
ment from Major Radge— letter from one hreaght to 
Christ by his fidelity— his Tiew of qnaMfieations for the 
ministry— special refreshing from the Holy Ghost* April 
23, 1823— increase of spirituality-desires to enter the 
ministy immediately, but resolves on a course of tho- 
rough preparation-letters to christian friends urging a 
high standard of holiness— Memohr of Parsons— New 
Year's letter to his parents — Death of tiie Compiler, and 
continuation by another hand— bright anticipations of 
heayen— letters to an aged Clergyman— Sayor of Christ 
in all hiscorrespondence— great joy in God'-letters to a 
lady in affliction— Journal— wammg of danger of wealth 
and luxury— letter to an aged colored woman— steadfast 
anticipations of the ministry — great spiritual joys— let- 
ters and journal— closes his studies in the Acadtmy^— 
*isite to friends and abundant labors, 74 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER IV. 



FIRST TXAR IV COLLBOX. 



Tcmptatioiii and trials of a CoUege life— pants for spiritual 
conrerse— letter to a fkmily— day of fasting— letter, 
"Looking unto Jesus "-Hrefreshing visit at Lawrence* 
▼ille— New Year's letter to his parents— efibrts to rouse 
others to duty— letter to a brother— humiliation and joy 
in God— letter to afflicted relatires— to a lady apparently 
near death— faithfulness to an individualr-blessing on his 
labors In yacation— holy joys— college honor»--abundant 
and snecessftil labors in revirals in Connecticut in raea- 
tion— journal and letters, 108 



CHAPTER V. 



SICOHD TXAR IN COLLXGX. 



Labors In connection with tiie Pastor of a Church in New- 
York— letter of warning to a fnend— freedom firom secta 
rianism— to an aged colored woman— New Year's letter 
to his parents«-to a Cousin— to a Female Friend— Diary 
—to a Young Christian— Diary— requested to aid a neigh- 
boring clergyman— forgoes visit to his friends, and spends 
vacation in a revival— success of his labors— letter to the 
Young Converts— to a young Lady— death of Summer- 
field— to a minister of the Gospel, ^ 



CONTSHTS. 



CHAPTER VL 



LA9T TSAR IN COLLBOK. 



Letter t»« Lady i» iSpeble healthf-4D a niter apparently 
near death— lettera t» relf tiYee—acenied by a fellow stu- 
dent—New YMw^linM^ to parents— to an aged eler- 
gynaa— to a Cluristiaa^ fria^ijl and famtty— to a candidate 
for the ministry— IHary— entire surrender to God— re- 
soWes to labor for salTation of the students indiTidually 
—his gentleness— leUcr to a brother prepaiing for the 
ministry— Diary— lear of sin— loTe of the BibI*— benefit 
of crosses-4o his brother, an officer in the chnreh— close 
of his college course, 807 



CHAPTER VU. 

IN THX THEOLOGICAL SXMIHART. 

Want of health— Joins the Theological Seminary— to a fa- 
mfly at Princeton— to a Clergyman who had bled at the 
lungr— to his mother— labors in renrals of religion in 
Connecticut— conyersion of his friend L. P.— labors in re- 
ligions meetinge— Bible Class— «uccesa— bleeds at the 
lungs— submission— aspirations for hearen— conrersation 
with a friend in Tiew of his illness— to a brother, and a fe- 
male friend— New Year's letters, 3M 



CONTENTS. ^ 

9 

CHAPTER VUI. 

.f 

TISITS AT TBI S0UTH~SICK5XflS^DSATH— OOMOLVSIOH. 

Voyage to Charleiton, S. C^joumies at the South— let- 
ters respectiog hit health^Divine consolationi— retarn 
Co New- York and Middle Haddam— lieenied to preach 
the Goipel— letters to friends— Diary— embarki for 
Prince Edward, Va.— letters to friends— gradual decline 
-death—letters describing the closing scene— lettera 
receiTed by the Compilers— Condasion, 



MEMOIR. 



CHAPTER I. 
Early Life, till commencing Study, 

JABfES Brainerd Tatlor, son of Col. Jeremiah 
Taylor, of Middle-Haddam, Connecticut, was bom on 
the 15th of April, 1801. His parents were in the com- 
munion of the Protestant Episcopal Church, and 
greatly respected in the circle of their acquaintance. 
On the mother's side, he was connected with the family 
of Brainerd, a name to be held in remembrance as long 
as the devoted zeal of the self-denying missionary 
shall be had in honor. On the father^s side, an old 
record traces up the lineage to a branch of the family 
of Jeremy Taylor. But, while no wise man ever un- 
dervalued the benefits of being born of worthy parents, 
no one of right spirit ever relied on this providential 
circumstante to bear him on through life. Our cha- 
racter depends on ourselves. So thought James B. 
Ta> lor. And while he honored and revered his pa- 
rents with the truest filial affection, he went forth with 
the spirit of genuine independence to make his own 
way in the world. 

Of his very early youth, the afiection of friends has 
preserved many r^llections of deep interest. He was 
particularly distinguished by an affectionate vivacity, 
which greatly endeared him to his relatives, and made 
him a general favorite in the circle in wYdc\iYkftTCiON%^ 



10 MEMOIR OF 

The first deep religious impressions on his mind 
were made by an elder brother, who, while on a visit 
to his father, took occasion, after family worship, to 
make some observations on a portion of Scripture, and 
to apply them to the state of those around him who 
were out of Christ. He was affected even to tears ; 
and, for the first time in his life, went on his knees in 
secret prayer. The feelings, however, which had 
been thus awakened, were almost entirely suppressed, 
in a way not at all unusual. James had been exceed- 
ingly devoted to the gayeties of life, and was particu- 
larly fond of dancing. Just about this time he was 
prevailed on by some young companions to go to a 
party formed for this purpose in the neighboriiood. 
The result was the loss of his seriousness, and the 
commission of sins of which he never before had 
been guilty. No one ever resists the Holy Spirit, and 
suppresses the convictions of his own heart, without 
a great increase of sinfulness. 

In this state of mind he was placed as a clerk in the 
store of a merchant in New- York. Two brothers, 
both older than himself, watched over him with all 
the solicitude of fraternal affection ; and thus he was 
preserved from the paths of that destroyer which 
lurks in all our large cities, and takes in her snares so 
many of our most hopeful young men. 

James attended the ministry of the Rev. Dr. John 
B. Romeyn, pastor of the church then in Cedar-street, 
New-York ; and there, at the age of fifteen, publicly 
professed his faith in Christ, and joined in commemo- 
rating his dying love. 

• Nothing in the history of his religious experience, 
at this time, shows it to have been very remarkable 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 11 

It appears, however, that as soon as he felt the trans- 
forming power of religious truth, he manifested a de- 
cided disposition to active benevolence, and readily 
engaged in such labors of love as a young man in his 
situation could perform. His letters also show a great 
concern for his younger brothers and sisters at home. 
Writing to a sister in the year 1815, he says : " Tell 
the dear little brothers and sisters the state of their 
hearts ; give them all the instruction you can as to 
their future w^are ; and O may the Lord draw them by 
the cords of. lis everlasting love, and let his Spirit and 
blessing rest on them." In another fetter written to the 
same relative, he gives this solemn exhortation : " M — , 
as you are the oldest child of our dear parents, now at 
home, do instruct our dear little brothers and sisters, 
and urge them to seek the salvation of their souls— 
for it is your duty." 

It appears, indeed, that afterwards he had a very low 
opinion of his religious attainments at this time. Yet 
his correspondence was almost entirely on the subject 
of religion, frequently indicating a deep sense of obli- 
gation ; and, though he was obliged during the whole 
week to perform the laborious services of a merchant^ 
clerk in a place of great commercial activity, he en- 
gaged with great alacrity as a teacher in the Sabbath 
school ; and his letters breathe a deep solicitude in be- 
half of the children comniitted to his care. i 

The compiler of this little work gladly takes this 
opportunity of recording the very valuable services ren- 
dered to the community by many young men in simi- 
'lar situations. And they deserve the higher approba- 
tion on account of the peculiarly disadvantageous <L\t-> 
comstances in which they are placed. lAxx\e ^o "^ 



■■■i 



■^ 



12 MBMOIR OF 

rents think to what danger they expose their sons 
when they send them to a merchant's counting-house 
m a large city. Removed from all the sacred influences 
of domestic life, and surrounded hy ten thousand temp* 
tations, they usually have no society but that of lads 
in their own situation. With but little previous edu- 
cation, and of course few mental resources, it is not 
so much wondered at, as deplored, that when the busi- 
ness of the day is over, they should seek relaxation 
and amusement in those places near which the destroy- 
er is always lurking; and that often, before their time 
of service is expired, they should have acquired habits 
of dissipation, and a love of pleasure, too strong lor 
their principles of honor and morality. Nor is it sur- 
prising that, in many cases, the interests of the em- 
ployer should greatly suffer from the profligateness of 
his clerks. 

Surely the value of religion cannot be too highly 
appreciated, when it is sufficient to preserve the youug, 
amidst all other temptations, from debasing pleasures 
and extravagant amusements. Of the strength of this 
principle of action there is very strong evidence af- 
forded by the Sabbath schools of our cities. While 
thousands, on the Lord's day, are pouring out through 
every avenue, under the pretence that their health re- 
quires a ride or a walk into the country ; and while every 
tavern and tipling shop in the vicinity is swarming with 
numbers, high in revelry and riot, there are hundreds 
of young people, of both sexes, who need amusement 
and relaxation as much as any others, and who seek 
and find it in the delightful exercise of a most benefit 
cial charity. They meet the children of the poor ; they 
even go among the outcasts of society, and take up 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 13 

the neglected, and speak words of kindness to them, 
and teach them to read the precepts of the purest mo- 
rality, and cause them to hear the lessons of heavenly 
wisdom. Thus, with every right feeling of the human 
heart greatly strengthened and refreshed hy the con- 
sciousness of voluntary efforts to do good, they re- 
return to the labors of the week, more happy in them- 
selves, and more deserving of the confidence of others 
than ever. If the gratitude of the community has no 
civic crown to reward such services, there is One, who 
will hereafter bestow the meed of approbation, when 
he shall say, " Well done, good and faithful servants, 
enter into the joy of your Lord." 

In employments of this beneficial character James 
B. Taylor took great delight ; and the peculiar kind* 
ness of his disposition induced him to engage in teach- 
ing the people of color, of whom there are very consi- 
derable numbers in New- York, and who have been 
greatly neglected in all the efibrts to do good which 
had preceded the establishment of Sabbath schools. 
'* I am engaged," said he, in a letter to one of his 
sisters, dated April 5, 1818, " in a Sunday school — a 
pleasing task indeed ! I have in my class eight, be- 
tween the ages of 19 and 40. Some of them learn, du- 
ring the week, to recite, on Sunday, one, two and three 
chapters in the Bible. We have in our school about 
serenty regular attendants, between 16 and 72 years 
of age. O how that race has been neglected ! But 
I trust that the time has come for them to know more 
of their Creator. There have been many converts, and 
some, both teachers and scholars, have connected 
themselves with the church, who ascribe their convic- 
tions to the influence of Sunday schools. We ey.\i^« 

2 J.B.T»v^ot. 



14 MEMOIR OF 

a great day at the anniversary. We shall probably 
meet in the Park, with all the children, about five 
thousand. These children, or most of them, were 
once, I may say, vagabonds, wandering about the 
sireets, and committing the worst of crimes." Such 
were the first openings of a christian character, which 
afterwards rose to great eminence, and shone out 
with exceeding lustre. In the present day, opportunities 
of doing good are so brought home to every individual, 
that if any one is contented with the determination to 
gp to heaven by himself, and let others alone, he pro- 
bably needs no other evidence to prove that he is not a 
Christian at all. 

In letters to his friends, James B. Taylor, by sta- 
ting facts showing the great usefulness of Sabbath 
schools, and by earnest exhortations, urged them to 
set up similar institutions in their neighborhoods. In 
every way he endeavored, when a youth of only six- 
teen, to be the cause of good to others. 

When young men are sent from the country to a large 
city, and become engaged in its business and pleasures, 
they generally are weaned from home ; and its simple 
pleasures are regarded with contempt. This is one of 
the truest signs of corruption ; and is an omen too sure, 
of the ruin which is soon to follow. If religion is not 
the only, it is certainly the best preservative from evils 
of this kind. Under its influence, James B. Taylor 
maintained all the simplicity of his character, and re- 
tained all his love of home, his filial and fraternal af- 
fection, in full vigor. Under date of Nov. 15, 1818, he 
writes : 

" It would give me great pieasure to receive a letter 
'* ^m my kind mother. I can never repay your good- 



JAMES BRAINEBD TATL^R. 15 

ness to me in my younger days. But I hope that He who 
alone can give happiness, will reward you a hundred 
fold. I never can, and I never would erase from my 
memory the kind admonitions which I have received 
from your lips. I never can sufficiently thank the Lord 
that my parents have heen so good to me. And it is 
impossible for me to express how much I love and es- 
teem you. For this also I desire to be thankful. I es- 
teem it a great blessing." 

In many other letters addressed to his parents, simi- 
lar sentiments are expressed in similar language. And 
the same strong natural affection was ever shown to- 
wards his brothers and sisters. But religion is the 
great subject of every letter; and the most intense de- 
sire that the whole family might become disciples of 
Jesus Christ, and partakers of his salvation, is mani- 
fested in every page. 

In his correspondence, as carried on from year to 
year, there are clear indications of a growth of reli- 
gious feeling, and increased consistency of religious 
character ; giving promise that one so devoted in early 
life would be employed by the Head of the church in 
some remarkable way for the advancement of his cause. 

.He was now pleasantly situated as a merchant's 
clerk, with a kind-hearted, pious man, whom he great* 
ly loved. His prospects were entirely favorable. But 
before the close of 1819, he determined to abandon his 
pursuits, renounce his hopes of becoming rich, and de- 
vote himself to the ministry of the Gospel. The pro- 
vidence of God was plainly in this whole affair. 

A physician in New- York, in full practice, and wil' 
a rising reputation, had determined to ^^ \ea.\e ^W^"^ ^ 



16 MEMOIR OF 

go with his family as a missionary to the East Indiefti 
His departure from the city excited great intereRt. 
James was engaged in his ordinary business, when a 
young christian friend, on passing his door, called, 
and asked him to accompany him to the wharf, ^^ to 
see Dr. Scudder off." The invitation was readily ac- 
cepted. The scene and the effect produced may be 
told in his own words : 

" New-York, May 24, 1819. 
^^ This morning I witnessed a scene highly interest- 
ing to the heart of a Christian. It caused thanksgiv- 
ing and praise to rise from my heart, and tears to flow 
from my eyes. I saw a missionary and his wife take 
their departure from this port for India, to declare 
among the heathen the unsearchable riches of Christ. 
How pleasing is it to see the Lord, from time to time, 
raising up one and another to make known his truth 
to the children of men, and sending them to those whc- 
have never heard the voice of mercy, have never been 
told of a Savior from sin, nor of a way of escape from 
the wrath to come. Let us rejoice in what he has 
done, is doing now, and has promised to do in time to 
come, for his church. On looking back thirty years, 
there were no Bible, no Missionary, no Tract Societies, 
nor Sabbath Schools. But now, we see them ?iU, 
and hear of their happy results. We also see socie- 
ties for the education of pious youth for the ministry, 
who, I trust, will prove a blessing to millions yet un- 
born. Christians, at this time, seem to be exerting 
themselves for the cause of Zion ; and while one min- 
ister is going among foreign pagans, another is taking 
his station among the Indians. 



JAMES BRAIITERD TAYLOR. 17 

'' This, I think, is not ^ a day of small things.' Yet 
much remains to he done. And all the followers of 
Christ ought to be more concerned and engaged for a 
^ world which lieth in wickedness.' We must also 
be more careful about our own growth in grace, and 
advancement in the divine life. For it would be a 
poor charity to neglect our own salvation in securing 
that of others. 

^^ The missionary who has just left us, was former- 
ly a physician in this city. This circumstance will be 
of great advantage, for he will be able to administer 
to the diseases of the body as well as the mind. It 
may be said of him and his wife, that they have left 
all, and followed their Savior. They counted not the 
blessings of home, and friends, or even their own lives, 
jdear unto themselves, that they might ' win Christ,' 
and win others to him. 

" I had the pleasure of being introduced to Dr. and 
Mrs. Scudder. He appeared cheerful ; Mrs. Scudder 
was bathed in tears, but yet rejoicing. They were sur- 
rounded by many acquaintances and friends ; and we 
can with difficulty imagine their feelings when, just 
about to leave home, and country, and all the blessings 
of Christian society, they heard one and another say, 
'my friend, my sister, farewell, for ever !' Just as the 
steamboat was moving off, one of the Doctor's friends, 
who came too late to go on board, called out and bade 
him adieu, wishing him a pleasant passage. I shall 
never forget Dr. Scudder's looks, or his words. As h^ 
tpoke, his eye kindled, and his cheek glowed with the 
ardor of christian benevolence. He waved his hand, 
and with a benignant smile on his countenance, said, 
* Only give me your prayers, and that is all I ask.' 

2* 



18 MEMOIR OP 

^ He if now gone — gone never to see his fiiends 
again in this world : — 

* Go, meMengefy and bear 
* Upon thy gentle wing. 
The long which seraphs love to hear, 
'And angels joy to sing.' 

" I have felt, since this morning, as though I would 
be willing to forsake my ever-dear father and mother, 
brothers and sisters, and country, for my Savior's sake 
and the Gospel's. I have also thought, perhaps my pre- 
sent business is not to be my future employ. Yes, the 
Lord may have in reserve for me, unworthy as I am, a 
situation far different from my present one. May I 
fver be led in the path of duty, this has been my pray- 
er this day : and I have, more than at any former time, 
felt the importance of crying, ' Lord, make me to know . 
my duty, and give me a heart to perform it.' Yes, my 
Lord does know all my desires, and hears all my 
iighs.'' 

Again ha writes: 

'^ On seeing Dr. Scudder take his last leave of his 
friends, and of the people on shore, with a true mis- 
sionary spirit, I felt a tenderness towards the poor 
heathen, to whom he was going, which caused my 
eyes to overflow, I thought that I would be willing 
to change my sitoation for his. On returning home, 
I felt that I could not attend to business. My de- 
iire was to spend that day with the Lord. I retired 
for piayer, and found the exercise sweet. My mind 
was impressed with the necessity for more ministers 
of the Gfospel ; and many reasons presented them* 



JAMES BRAINERO TAYLOR. 19 

selyes, why I should devote my life to the good of my 
fellow-meR in that situation." 

The desire, which was thus awakened, grew in 
strength. But no hasty resolution was taken. He con- 
Milted with those in whose judgment he confided ; and 
with that warm filial afiection and reverence which 
characterized him, asked counsel of his parents : 

" New- York, May, 1819. 

" Will it not give you pleasure to hear of my desir- 
ing to enter on a course of study for the ministry of 
reconciliation ? Yes, my dear father, I have heen led, 
within the course of a few weeks past, to think serious- 
ly on this subject. When I turn my eyes to the exten- 
sive fields which are presented to my view, they seem 
to be ' white unto the harvest.' The language of Scrip- 
ture is surely applicable to the present time, — * The 
harvest truly is great, but the laborers are few.' The 
calls of Providence are loud to young men to de- 
vote themselves to the ministry. And to whom can 
the Church look but to her sons for this service 1 The 
population of this country is growing very rapidly, and 
the proportion of its increase is much beyond that of 
the faithful ministers of the Gospel. The call of des- 
titute churches in different parts of our country is, 
^ Come over and help us.' The voice of the Indians 
on our borders is, ^ Come and make known to us the 
Savior, that we perish not.' The superstition and idol- 
atry of the heathen, beyond the seas, urge us to go 
and preach the Gk>spel, and proclaim to them the glad 
tidings of salvation. When we think of the Hindoos, 
who offer their own children in sacrifice to appease 
Ihcir offended gods : whose worship is a worse than 



20 MEMOIR OF 

useless superstition ; who, on going down to the 
grave, have no Savior on whom to repose, and no hope 
of awaking to a happier life to come, — how can we 
help feeling for them ! Surely every benevolent heart 
longs for their salvation. The heathen are promised 
to Christ for his inheritance, and the uttermost parts 
of the earth for his possession. To whom can they 
look but to us who are Christians 7 And does not 
God require us to be co-workers with him in the exe- 
cution of his grand designs ? Means always have been, 
and probably always will be used by the Lord, for 
evangelizing the nations. There is a want of faith- 
ful ministers throughout the world. 

'^ Now, when I reflect on the goodness and mercy 
of the Lord towards our family, in bringing the chil- 
dren, as they grow up, to be acquainted with his ways, 
and to become his professed followers, it seems to me 
as though some of the number were called to devote 
themselves to him in the work of the ministry. We 
have been brought to profess his name at an early age. 
May God make known to us the path of duty, and 
give us a heart to walk therein. 

^^ He who enters on this great work ought to weigh 
the matter well, knowing that many go without being 
called. In leaving my present business to engage in 
the ministry, I do not expect more ease or worldly 
comfort. Far from it ! The life of a minister, who is 
faithful to his Master, to himself, and to those around 
him, is not only laborious, but full of trials. Yet, do- 
ing good to the souls of men, and giorifying God, is 
more than double compensation for all the hardships 
and crosses which the devoted servant of Christ is 
subjected to. Very erroneous views are entertained 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 21 

by many respecting the life of a minister. It has heen 
supposed that it is easy. But the most arduous labors 
of a clergyman are not visible to the world. They 
are performed in his study. Let people follow him to 
that place, and see him praying, reading, examining, 
composing — they will then have very different thoughts. 
But only they who have entered on this course know 
all the bitter and the sweet connected with it. The 
responsibility which presses on the mind of a truly 
conscientious minister is probably more trying than 
any other species of care and anxiety. Self-denial is 
also necessary in a minister, as indeed it is in all 
Christians. It is the very foundation of all active re- 
ligion. Without it nothing can be done to purpose in 
the great work of reforming the world — this world that 
lieth in sin. 

" Do you ask me whether I am willing to leave my 
present business ? It would indeed be a cross to leave 

Mr. H , for he is one of the best of men. Some may 

think, if they do not say, that I am a fool for wishing to 
give up my present employment, which bids fair to make 
me rich, and which is far more honorable in the sight 
of the world. To this I can reply, and I do think from 
the heart, that I am willing to give up my present si- 
tuation, with all its prospects, for one in which I think 
that I can be more useful. As for the riches of this 
world, I do not expect to find happiness in them; and the 
more I think on the condition of the ' christian poor, 
who do not want,' the more I am convinced that they 
enjoy higher happiness than those who share largely 
in the good things of the present life. The cottages 
of humble Christians are more honorable than the pa- 
laces of the rich, where there is no fear nor love of 



22 MEMOIR OF 

God The language of my heart is, Lord, whatever 
may be denied to me — health, friends, and comforts of 
this life — let me never be denied the light of thy coun- 
tenance, and thy loving kindness. 

'* The number of ministers necessary adequately to 
supply the United States, is estimated at more than 
11,000. There is thought to be at present less than 
one-fourth of that number. What is wanting to en- 
courage one to engage in this all-interesting service ? 
Why should not the call for more laborers be heard 
by me 7 Surely, if I have been called from ' darkness 
to light,' it should be my chief aim and desire to point 
out the way t«f salvation to others. 

"But sometimes my heart. shrinks when I think of 
entering on this service. I have so much to go through 
before I can appear in the pulpit ; and then to come 
before the world — I am terrified by the anticipation. 

"I have now stated my feelings, and submit the 
same for your consideration. I hope that they may 
meet your views, and receive your approbation. I 
doubt not that they will. My desire is to leave all, 
and become an ambassador for Christ. Of the dif- 
ficulties in my way, the most prominent at present is 
the want of funds. I wish you to inform me whether 
you feel able and i^illing to support me through my 
course of study. 

" Should I enter on the work of ^ the ministry, there 
are these promises to comfort and sustain me. Luke, 
12 : 42, ^ Who is that faithful and wise servant, whom 
his Lord shall make ruler over his household, to give 
them their meat in due season V Ver. 43, ' Blessed is 
that servant, whom his Lord, when he cometh, shaU 
find so doing.^ Matt. 28 : 20, ' Teaching them to oh- 



JAMES BRAIN ERD TAYLOR. 23 

serve all things whatsoever I have commanded you ; 
and lo, I wax with . you alway, even unto the end of 
the world.' Dan. 12:3, ^ And they that be wise shall 
shine as the brightness of the firmament ; and they 
that turn many to righteousness, as the stars for ever 
and ever. Luke, 21 : 15, ^ 1 will give you a mouth and 
wisdom whicli all your adversaries shall not be able 
to gainsay or resist.' 

" I can say no more at present. My heart is open 
before the Lord, and I wait the direction of his provi- 
dence. Please to give me an early reply, and state your 
views on the subject. There can be no objection on 
account of my age. Cf my natural talents I wish you 
to be judge. 

^' Your afiectionate son, Jambs." 

After receiving an answer to this letter, he conti- 
nued for some time in the employment of Mr. H— , 
faithfully discharging his duty as a clerk, and endea- 
voring in his place to do good. 

During the summer of 18 19, New- York was visited 
with the yellow fever. It was a time of great alarm. 
But this served only to show the strength and steadi- 
ness of his religious principles. While engaged in 
duty, he appeared to have no fears or anxieties for 
himself. To his parents he writes thus : c^i 

" A>W:rs tqy Sepiemher 10, 1819. 
" Probably you have by is prorfme he«rd of the yei- 
low fever in New-York, troy TtfiB '^ ^^j ^rgglvps some 
anxiety about your childra cB^eif The fever has ar^ 
yet spread much, and it Ia remoiia^jpomus. Atfresac- 
there is not much occasion to be Idumed. 



24 MEMOIR OF 

'' You hslve this one thing, my dear parentt, to com- 
fort you. Your children here have an intere^n the Sa- 
vior, at whose command are all the diseases to which 
we are subject. They can proceed as far as he wills, 
and no farther. How can we be thankful enough to 
him, who has called us to the knowledge of the truth ! 
As the Lord has sustained us in times past, let us trust 
him for that which is to come. This seems to be my 
language : — * Lord, I would trust thee : I desire to be 
willing to submit to the ordering of thy providence, 
whether it send sickness or health, life or death ; for I 
know that all things shall work together for my good." 

Through the agency of his beloved pastor, the way 
was soon opened for him to enter on studies prepara- 
tory to the ministry in the academy at Lawrenceville, 
N. J., in view of which he thus gives utterance to his 
full heart in letters to his parents and friends : 

"J>rew-York, November 16, 1819. 
**My dearly beloved Father and Mother, 

" I begin my letter in the language of the Psalmist — 
* Bless the Lord, O my soul ; and all that is within me, 
bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my sonl, and 
forget not all his benefits.' It may be truly said, that the 
ways of the Lord are not as our ways, nor his thoughts 
as our thoughts ; ai^ that his dealings with his chil- 
, dren are often very vQM'ent from their expectations. 
Thus my heavenly F»hful .has dealt with me, his dis- 
obedient and.n^t^lJ^ ove.d, in opening the way that 
* *^^ miy be prepareaia^^^Ui^'h the everlasting Gospel. 
*"** 1 8, my dea^ paren^.s, I have concluded to leave my 
"^" resent empjoyment, to prepare for the ministrv. This 



JAMES BRAINEBD TAYLOR. 25 

determination has met writh the approbation of all my 
friends liere, as far as I have communicated it to them* 
Mr. H. my employer, on learning the circumstances 
of the case, and my wishes, instead of making a single 
objection, immediately said, go ! and added, that he 
should rejoice in it, if I were called to that work. He 
also lamented that, in the present great want of faith- 
ful laborers in the vineyard of the Lord, so few young 
men were inclined to devote themselves to the service 
of Christ in the church. Was not this favorable 1 My 
brother, (to whom I am under many obligations, and 
whom I love both as a brother in the flesh and in the 
Ijord,) on hearing my statements, said that he saw no 
objections to my going, and that as to what I owed, it 
should raise no difficulty, for he would take care of 
that. 

" In view of these circumstances, I am constrained 
Co adore and praise a gracious Providence, and to ask, 
what is there now to hinder my going forward ? I can 
see nothing. I do not desire the office on account of 
worldly praise or honor, but, as I hope, for the glory 
of Gk)d, connected with the salvation of my fellow- 
men. 

^^My heart at times rejoices in the prospect of being 
Useful to my fellow-sinners, and at times it shrinks 
back from the many difficulties which rise to my view. 
The life of a faithful minister (and such may I be, if 
admitted to the office) appears to me to be more glo- 
rious than any other. He is prompted by true benevo- 
lence ; he labors not to destroy men's souls, but to save 
them. He is engaged in a cause which must prosper, 
for Christ is the head. He shall receive .a reward ac« 
coidmg to Christ's promise. 

3 l.li.T«:S^«t» 



2l^ M£MOia OF 

"The land is greatly destitute of devoted and able 
ministers. The harvest truly is great, and the laborers 
are few. My heart is turned towards this work ; and 
one proof of my being called to it, as it seems to me, 
is that I have lost that relish for my business which I 
once had, and am willing to be poor, if I only may be 
useful in my Master's cause. In entering on my course 
I have nothing to fear but the conmiission of sin ; but 
every thing to encourage me. The men of this world, 
after having accomplished their plans, are often at a 
loss to what they shall turn next, and are unhappy for 
want of something in which to employ themselves 
with interest. But it is not so with the devoted ser- 
vant of Christ. The world is the field of his labors. 
He always has enough to do, and is assured that his 
labor shall not be in vain. It will be sweet and animat- 
ing in his last hours to reflect that he has lived to some 
good purpose ; that he has served the Lord by serving 
others. And if he can know that he has been mstru- 
mental in turning sinners from the error of their ways, 
and saving souls from death, it will be matter of ever- 
lasting thankfulness and praise. May this joy, my 
dear parents, be mine, to the glory of divine grace ! 

" In reflecting on this subject, I am led to ask, Ca7i, 
CAN it be, that the Lord will raise me up to be one of 
his servants in the ministry — me ! who am so igno- 
rant, so helpless, so needy ? But while I am ignorant, 
helpless, needy, I know that my Lord is wise, power- 
ful, and possesseth all things. Him I love — him I 
would serve and obey. 

" I shall probably take my departure from New-York 
foi Lawrenceville, near Princeton, New-Jersey* There 
I expect to spend two years in academical studies. Af- 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. S7 

ter which I shall spend three years in some college; 
whence I shall repair to a theological seminaiy, and 
study probably three years more. The time socms 
long : but this is the prescribed course. 

" Now, taking things as they appear, does not the 
language of Providence seem to say, go ? In doing 
this, I would be mindful that I must deny all ungod- 
liness, and every worldly lust, and live soberly, righ- 
teously, and godly. In pursuing this course, I must bo 
holy in heart and in life. Humility becomes the fol- 
lowers of Jesus — I must possess much of this grace. 
As a minister of Christ, I must be willing to forsake 
all, and follow him. I know that there are many and 
awful responsibilities connected with this office ; such 
as do not rest on other Christians. The Lord knows 
this too, and imparts grace sufficient for them. But 
he who, whether minister or private Christian, has 
the glory of God singly in view, need not fear the 
world^ the flesh, nor the devil, for he shall be brought 
off more than conqueror. ' They who put their trust 
in him shall never be confounded.' 

" Trusting in the Lord for strength, and confiding in 
him alone for help, I will go forAvard, hoping that I 
shall be made a workman that need never be ashamed ; 
a faithful soldier of the cross, having always the glory 
of Grod and the good of my fellow-men at heart. 

"My dear parents, I now see that the world has had 
too much pf my time. The remainder, I trust, will be 
spent more in the service of my blessed Lord. And 
may you find increasing delight in * serving without 
ceasing.' Our stay here is short. The time is not far 
distant when death will enter our family. And shall it 
be my father, my dear father, or my deai mo\\\«t,^\ift- 



MEMOIR OF 

loyed brother or sister, who shM Jirst be consigned to 
the tomb ? My father, mother, brothers and sistern, 
all be prepared ; being washed, being sanctified, be- 
ing justified in the name of the Lord Jesus, and by the 
Spirit of our God. 

'^ Your affectionate son, 

"James" 

Under a subsequent date, he writes : 

" The time necessary forme to go through the course 
marked out, is eight years. I hope that in the discharge 
of my duty during this period I may be useful, 

" The Lord has laid me under great obligations to 
be thankful, by singling me but from the rest of the 
dear family for this service. And I hope that you, my 
beloved father and mother, cease not to thank and 
praise him, that he has condescended to confer this 
honor on me. Should I be found a faithful minister of 
the Gospel, and you, with me, be admitted into the 
upper sanctuary, this one thing will no doubt be a 
theme on which we shall dwell with everlasting plea- 
sure." 

To his sister, in a letter of the same date, he thus 
expresses his views of the solemnity of the work m 
which he was about to engage : 

" This age seems to require that a minister should 
be thoroughly furnished for his work. They who have 
the greatest store of knowledge, connected with true 
piety, have the best opportunities of doing good. But 
while I set so great a value on a good education, I 
would not be understood to say that education is a 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 20 

matter of the highest importance. Pure and undefiled 
religion is the chief thing in the character of a minis- 
ter of the Gospel. Without it he cannot he useful. 
He who does not possess love to God ; who has never 
been * born of water and the Spirit ;' who docs not 
feel the worth of immortal souls, and who does not 
preach as a dying and accountable man to perishing 
and accountable beings, is not worthy of the name ol 
a minister of Jesus Christ. Feeling the awful respon- 
sibility which is to rest on me should I enter this of- 
fice, as I hope in due time to do, I am ready to say, 
* Who is sufficient for these things?' The Lord alone 
can be my helper. Having him as ' my rock of de- 
fence,' I need fear nothing. I hope that the language 
of my heart is, * none but Christ ;' and that the tenor 
of my life will be in conformity to it. My dear sister, 
the Lord has been kind to us in days that are past. 
He has given us reason and made us capable of enjoy- 
ing him. He has brought us in early life to seek 
him, that we may * be found in him :' let us then de- 
vote the remainder of life to his service. Let us not 
be content with barely getting to heaven ourselves ; 
but in seeking our own salvation, let us also seek 
that of others. I have often thought that, should my 
life be spared to enter the ministry, and should the 
blessing of my Master enable me to do some little 
good in the world, the reflection would be sweet and 
cheering in a dying hour. And in the eternal world, 
how delightful must it be to find souls in the enjoy- 
ment of everlasting rest, who have been brought there 
through our instrumentality ! Let us set out then with 
renewed diligence, and endeavor to do something for 
the glory of our Redeemer and the salvation oi! ^vckXkSt^- 

3* 



30 MEMOIR OF 

To another friend he urges the following request: 

" As I have it now in prospect to enter the ministry 
let me solicit an interest in your prayers. Pray^that 
I may, indeed, be willing to forsake all, and follow 
Christ ; that I may be meek and lowly ; a workman 
that need not be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of 
truth, and giving lo every one a portion in due season ; 
that I may, as *• before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, 
who shall judge the quick and dead at his appearing 
and his kingdom, preach the word ; be instant in sea- 
son and out of season ; reprove, rebuke, exhort, with 
all long suffering and doctrine ;' that I may be blame- 
less, not a novice lifted up with pride ; that I may hold 
the mystery of faith in a pure conscience, and be holy 
in heart and in life, a child of God, without rebuke.-' 

To a young friend, who had entered on a prepara- 
taty course of study a little time before him, he un- 
folds himself with much freedom. 

" You having entered on your studies for the minis- 
try, and I having the same thing in prospect, we ought 
to unite in grateful acknowledgments to the Lord, that 
he has given us a desire for this service. We are told 
t>y an inspired apostle, that ' he who desireth the office 
of a bishop, desireth a good work.^ On asking myself 
what reason I have to believe that the Lord has called 
me to preach the Gospel, I reply : My desire has con- ; 
tinned for a considerable time, and has been strong. 
My wish is to glorify Qod, and be useful to my fellow- 
men. Providence has, in a clear manner, opened the 
way for me. Far be it from me to take this holy office 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 31 

on myself, unless I am ' called of Gk)d, as was Aaron.' 
But the time seems to have arrived, when I ought to 
go and prepare for preaching the Grospel. During my 
preparation, and through life, I expect to meet with 
trials. Those of a minister are, often, of no ordinary 
kind. But as are his trials, so will be his joys, if in- 
deed he has pure and undefiled religion. This is, above 
all things, necessary. And as ' God resisteth the proud, 
but giveth grace to the humble,' how important is it 
that we should cultivate humility. ' He that exalteth 
himself shall be abased, but he that humbleth himself 
shall be exalted '—exalted to fellowship with the Fa- 
ther and his Son Jesus Christ ; and in being made a fit 
temple for the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. In pros- 
pect of this, I have felt willing to be poor. If I can 
only be useful, it will be enough for me. But self- 
denial is indispensable for a minister : may I be will- 
ing to deny myself, and take up my cross ! 

'' I feel desirous to go- to my work, and to be aboat 
my Master's business. But I must be detained here a 
while longer. When I am awake, my mind is at all 
times on* this subject. My relish for business is gone, 
and I shall not feel that I am in the right place, until 
I am at my studies. When that time shall come, I hope 
that I may so improve in virtue and knowledge, that 
I shall glorify God, and meet the expectations of my 
friends. 

" My Christian brother, permit me to request that 
communicate with me as you may find time ; and 
as you are older in religion than I am, I shall look to 
you to give me such advice as may aid my growth in 
grace. As we have a common Lord, are aiming at the 
tame heaven, amidst the same difficulties and dan^ets^ 



32 MEMOIR or 

let us bear each oiher on the heart, when we go to a 
throne of grace." 

In another letter to the same friend, he speaks of the 
long time to be employed in preparation for the minis< 
try ; and expresses the hope that he might be useful 
while prosecuting his studies. To this he adds a sen- 
timent of very great value to all who are preparing for 
the ministry. It seems that he had expected, on enter- 
ing his course, that he should enjoy the fullest oppor- 
tunities of reading the Bible, meditation, and prayer in 
secret. But better information convinced him that so 
many hours would be occupied every day in literary 
and scientific pursuits, that very little time would re- 
main for those delightful employments. He therefore 
resolved to carry religion as fully as possible into his 
studies ; and daily engage in them, with the thought 
that thus he might be rendered useful in the vineyard 
of the Lord. 

His purposes and resolutions in relation to those 
who might be his fellowrstudents, also show the true 
spirit of christian prudence and benevolence; To the 
same friend he writes after this manner: — "I hope 
that those with whom we shall associate, will be of 
the right cast ; and that we shall be very cautious with 
whom we form intimate connections. But let us, by 
the meekness of our temper and the kindness of qui 
deportment, by devotedness to the cause of our l^e- 
deemer, and the earnestness of our wishes to promote 
the real happiness of those around us, interest them in 
us and gain their affections. Let the saying of Paul 
be our motto, ' Follow peace with all men, and Ao2£- 
nessy without which no man shall see the Lord.' '' 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 33 

Shortly after the date of this letter, he joined the 
academy at Lawrenceville. under charge of the Rer. 
Isaac y. Brown, and began his preparatory studies. 
The reader cannot but have remarked the earnestness 
of his desire to enter the ministry ; the singleness of his 
motives in desiring the sacred office ; and the grateful 
joy mianifested, when Providence rendered plain the 
way for him to begin his studies. With the utmost ala- 
crity he left an employment which promised wealth, 
and all the consideration in the world which wealth in- 
sures, and devoted himself to the service of the church, 
with the expectation of being poor and laboring hard 
during his whole life. In all this, however, there was 
none of the rashness of a young enthusiast, but the 
deliberate self-denial of a true Christian. He adopted 
no plan, he took no step without first consulting his 
parents and most judicious friends, and obtaining their 
approbation. 

At the age of nineteen he was willing to sit down 
to a course of eight years' study, that he might be qua- 
lified for usefulness, and, in some measure at least, 
prepared to meet the awful responsibilities of the mi- 
nisterial office. These responsibilities he deeply felt * 
and while he most earnestly desired to be a preacher 
of the Grospel, he was too conscientious and too pru- 
dent to rush into it without that mental discipline, 
and that culture of the heart which would, in his own 
^kAiberate judgment, justify him in going forward as 
A teacher of others. 

He who teaches religion, has to teach persons of all 
classes — the master spirits of the nation, who expect 
justjfiess and force of thought, propriety of language, 
enlarged and liberal views, united with ^' the meek- 



34 BIEMOIB OF 

ness of hearenlf wisdom:" — and the uninstrocted 
poor, who need that the tnith should be set forth in 
terms so clear and familiar, that they cannot be mis- 
taken. The man of real learning alone is able to per- 
form this service. Accustomed to investigation, he ar- 
ranges his thoughts in a natural order ; habituated to 
the search after truth, he employs words with preci- 
sion; and knowing how greatly the energy of lan- 
guage is increased by simplicity, he uses " great plain- 
ness of speech." Whereas, the untaught and the half 
taught foolishly imagine that they are great and pro- 
found, in proportion as they are unintelligible. The 
most eloquent men whom I have ever known, such as 
Patrick Henry and John Randolph, among statesmen ; 
and James Waddell and James Turner, among preach- 
ers, were remarkable for the simplicity of their man- 
ner and the perfect intelligibleness of their language. 
They made every one, learned and rude, feel their in- 
tellectual power.* The art consists mainly in setting 
the subject so plainly and distinctly before the people, 
that every one shall think that he can see it himself. 
But it requires much intellectual discipline to enable 
a public speaker to do this. 

It deserves also to be remarked, that James Brainerd 
Taylor did not rely for evidence of a call to the minis- 

* An old soldier of the revolation told me, that in some se- 
vere eneoonter daring the war, his commanding officer, per- 
eeiving that his men, though fighting bravely, were overshoot- 
ing the enemy, in his peculiar slang cried out, ** thin them, 
boys ! akin them !" and at the very first fire after this com- 
mand, the advancing column of British grenadiers wavered 
and reeled, and was very soon entirely broken. Lei the soldier 
of the cross imitate the eicample— let himfre low 



JAMES BRAINERO TAYLOH. 35 

try on the impulses of his own mind, or some unde- 
finable feelings, but looked carefully, at the leadings of 
Providence, at the wants of the world, and at the state 
of his own heart. He consulted his friends, and prayed 
over the subject. In a word, he adopted every mea- 
sure to enable him to form a wise determination ; and 
as the result of the whole, went forward under a firm 
conviction of duty. 



CHAPTER II. 

Pirst two years in Academy. 

On the 13th of January, 1820, Mr. Taylor arrived at 
Lawrenceville, and began a course of study prepara- 
tory to his entering college. A yoiing man in this situ- 
ation is exposed to (emptatioiid which require much 
vigilance and care ; otherwise his religious interests 
will sufier ; and while he is growing in knowledge, he 
will be declining in piety. 

A new, dry, and difficult study at once occupies 
and harasses the mind. If there is an ardent thirst for 
knowledge, and any waking up of ambition and rival- 
ry, the attention is so engrossed that little opportunity 
is found for prayer and that devotional reading of the 
Scriptures which is indispensable to one's growth in 
holiness. And if religious exercises afibrd high enjoy- 
ment, there is great danger lest the young student 
should go from them to his daily studies with reluc- 



36 MEMOIR OP 

tanee, and in process of time with feelings of disgust. 
It requires, then, much firmness of religious principle, 
and great self-watchfulness, to go through this early 
part of preparation witli no diminution either of the 
piety of the student or his desire of intellectual im* 
provement. 

Besides, a promiscuous school of twenty or thirty 
boys, lodging in the same or neighboring buildings, 
has a spirit generally unfavorable to religious improve- 
ment. Their petty jealousies, their occasional dissa- 
tisfactions, the general levity^ of boys, and a thousand 
things of this kind, operate injuriously. And it hap- 
pens, sometimes at least, that a young man enters col- 
lege with less of the spirit which becomes a minister 
of Christ, than he carried with him to the grammar 
school. 

If, then, an example can be shown of one who went 
through these dangers without injury ; and if it can ba 
shown by what means he grew in grace, while others 
m similar circumstances often decline, this part ol 
James B. Taylor's memoir may be useful to numbers, 
in whose high-toned and fervent piety the church and 
the world have a deep interest. 

His first letter from Lawrenceville is addressed to 

his friend C H , who was then preparing 

for college, at Bloomfield, N. J. 

" I left New-York on Tuesday, and lodged in New- 
Brunswick. On the next day, at six P. M. I set out 
for Lawrenceville. After we had proceeded about 
eight miles, the horses suddenly started ojQT, and before 
we had discovered that the driver was left behind, 



JAMES BRMNCaO TAYLOR. 37 

rtiey were on the run. There were four passengers in 
the stage besides myself, who appeared to be mucli 
agitated ; nor did I wonder at it, for they were very 
irreligious persons, and there appeared to be no way 
of escape. I did not know what the issue would be, 
^ut of this I was certain, that the Judge of all the 
earth would do right, and my mind was in a great de- 
gree composed. The suddenness of the afiair caused 
a little anxiety at first. But I thought of the distin- 
guishing mercy of my heavenly Father, who had been 
pleased to call me to trust in him ; and I felt that it 
was a time to set a value on the religion of Jesus, and 
the hope which it imparts. O that I might value it 
more ! The horses ran about two miles at full speed, 
and then turned into the yard where they are accus- 
tomed to stop, without any injury to the passengers or 
stage. I consider the escape as entirely providential, 
and feel that I am called on ' to praise the Lord for 
his goodness,' and say, ' hitherto hath he helped me.' 
My situation is pleasant. Religious privilege^ are bet- 
ter than I expected. We have family worship morn- 
ing and evening, preaching every Sabbath, and prayer- 
meetings on Tuesday, Friday, and Saturday. 

" As yet I have made very little progress in my 
Latin. I find it pretty dry, and rather trying^ for I go 
on more slowly than I expected. This has troubled 
me somewhat ; but as it is the way to usefulness^ I 
hope I shall not yield to such feelings. I think that 
we may be as happy now, as at any futoipe period of 
life, if we only use our present privileges with a rign 
spirit. Having been here but a short time, I have not 
yet adopted any particular plan for disposing of my 
time. I design before long to di-aw up such an one for 

4 S.I^TvsVk. 



38 MEMOIR OF 

my guidance. T ae remarks of the great moralisti John- 
soD, on this subject I think are good. ^ I believe, says 
he, it is best to throw life into a method, that every 
hour may bring its employment, and every employ- 
ment have its hour. If every thing be kept in a cer- 
tain place, when any thing is worn out or consumed, 
the vacuity which it leaves will show what is want- 
ing : so if every part of time has its appropriate duty, 
the hour will call into remembrance its engagement.' 
Should you have drawn up any scheme for the dispo* 
sal of your time, I should like, if you have no objec- 
tion, to see it, as it may be useful to me. 

" During the course of our studies, may we havt 
the smiles of our heavenly Father ! The responsibi- 
lities resting on us are of no ordinary kind ; let us, 
therefore, ' be up and doing.' As we advance in life, 
I hope that we shall grow in grace, and in the know- 
ledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ ; counting 
it more than our meat and drink to do the will of him 
who, of his mercy, hath called us into his service. It 
seems more and more necessary that we should be ex- 
emplary in our conduct, that we should be ' wise as 
sorpents, and harmless as doves.' That this may be 
the case ; that we may be found faithful soldiers of the 
cross ; the ' sons of God without rebuke,' and be final- 
ly received to mansions in the skies, is the prayer of 
your sincere friend, J. B. T." 

To two of his aunts, living in Tolland, (Conn.) he 
addressed a letter, dated January 23, 1820, in which 
occur the following passages : 



St 



The school which I attend consists of twenty-five 



JAME3 BRAIN ERD TAYLOR. 39 

scholars, of whom five, including myself, are prepar- 
ing for the ministry : the rest are wild, giddy-headed 
boys. I am pleasantly situated in an agreeable family, 
and have two room-mates, of whom one* is a pious, 
humble Christian, and I think as suitable a companion 
for me as could be found. He is about three weeks 
ahead of me in pursuit of the same object. In the 
summer season this will be a beautiful spot, having 
many pleasant walks and much line scenery. Yester- 
day morning, early, I walked into the fields, and found 
a refreshing time for my soul. A view of the works 
of creation, and the echoes of various pleasant sounds, 
broke on the ear and warmed my heart. As I loolted 
on the surrounding objects, I felt that ^ my Father 
made them all.' How delightful is it to be ' calm and 
serene;' how sweet to repose with confidence ou a 
covenant God, and to cast all our care on him, who 
careth for us ! The soul can then look down on the 
world with a holy indifference, knowing that it is not 
the believer's home. 

" ' The older I grow, the more I feel the necessity 
of living nearer to the Lord.' Do you not find it so 
with yourselves ? O for the power of quickening grace 
to animate us in our Christian life ! 

'Come, Holy Spirit, heavenly dove, 
With all thy quiek'ning powers i 
Kindle a flame of sacred love 
In these cold hearts of ours.* 

'^ Having embarked in the cause of Christ, I ho(m 
that my life may be one continued act of devotedneBS 

* Rev. Mr. Golick, tmee miisionaij to the Sandwifih Itloada. 



40 MEMOIB OF 

to him. Ha emg put my hand to the plough, I trust that 
I shall never 16ok back : and I depend on him who 
raises up, qualifies, and thrusts laborers into his vine- 
yard, for grace to strengthen me. In looking forward, 
I see that years will pass before I appear in public as 
an ambassador for Christ. But this does not discou- 
rage me. I am sometimes anxious, lest, while occu- 
pied with my ctudies, I should lose my enjoyment of 
religion. Do you tell me *" draw nigh to the Lord, and 
he will draw nigh to you V O for a closer walk with 
God ; a continual hungering and thirsting for the wa- 
ter of life I Since my mind has been made up to de- 
vote myself to the service of Christ in the ministry, I 
feel more deeply my need of an interest in the prayers 
of my brethren and sisters in the Lord. I hope you 
will not think that I am placing dependence on man. 
The prayer of the righteous, you know, availelh mucft. 
As then you are acquainted with my situation, I earn- 
estly beg to be remembered in your prayers. Make 
mention of me in all your supplications. Entreat our 
heavenly Father that I may be a pattern of piety ; that 
I may manifest the reality and excellency of the reli- 
gion which I profess, by walking worthy of my high 
calling in Christ Jesus ; and that I may never bring 
reproach on that cause which I have espoused. 

'^ The Loid being near and around me, and the Ho- 
ly Spirit abiding in my heart, unworthy as I am, during 
the part of my life devoted to preparatory studies, may 
I .-jrow in grace, and in the knowledge of my Savior. 
It is my earnest desire that I may be prepared for my 
work, and in due time become a faithful minister of 
the New Testament." 



JAMES BBAINERD TAYLOR. 41 

In letters to his parents, written shortly after com- 
mencing his studies, he further exhibits the state of his 
mind in regard to the great work before tdm, 

" Fehrtuiry 4, 1830. 
" My present situation is that which I have for many 
months been wishing to occupy. The Lord, I trust, 
has inclined my heart to engage in this work, and by 
a kind providence has placed me here, that I may pre- 
pare to preach his Gospel. In looking around for my 
former companions, I find that some are dead, others 
are living without any concern for tbeir souls, while a 
precious few have fled to the ark of safety, and have 
found the Lord Jesus. O, what occasion for thankful- 
ness have I ! My dear parents, help me to praise the 
God of my salvation : for once your son was ' dead in 
trespasses and sins,' a despiser of that which is good, 
and a lover of evil. Bless the Lord for the hope which 
we have through the ^peace-speaking blood of the 
dear Redeemer.' 

* He moves in a mysterious way, 
' His wonders to perform.* 

I, who am so unworthy, am now on the way, under 
his direction, as I believe ; and should life and health 
be spared, I trust the time will come when I shall pub- 
licly declare the riches of his sovereign grace to my 
fellow-sinners. It is delightful to think of being made 
the instrument of bringing even one of the lost sheep 
of Christ into his fold. How sweet, in a dying hour, 
to know that one has done some good to the souls of his 
fellow-men. To be engaged in the service of him who 
came to seek and save the lost, is honorable ; for he i^ 
'King of kings and Lord of lords.' May m^ «ovl^^ 

4* 



42 "'"**^ MEMOIR OP 

ways delight in this service, and my lot be cast with 
the followers of Jesus. Let it be our continual desire 
to live near to him, who gave himself for us, that we 
might not perish, but have everlasting life. 

*^ I greatly admire the character of a minister of the 
gospel, as drawn by Cowper : 

* Simple, grave, sincere ; 

' In doctrine uncorrupt; in language plain, 
'And plain in manner; decent, solemn, chaste 

* And natural in gesture ; much impressed 

' Himself, as conscious of his awful charge, 
'And anxious mainly that the flock he feeds 

* May feel it too : affectionate in look, 

' And tender in address, as well. becomes 

* A messenger of grace to guilty men.' " 

In a letter to Mr. H., written about a month after he 
began his course of study, after expressing a number 
of sentiments similar to those contained in the forego* 
ing extracts, he gives a brief account of the manner in 
which he employed his time. This account is closed 
with the following sentence : " The last thing before 
retiring, every night, my companion and I commit to 
memory a portion of Scripture. What may not this 
amount to in eight years?" 

This little quotation is introduced chietiy for the pur- 
pose of earnestly recommending such a practice to the 
imitation of all theological students. During the long 
course of preparation for the ministry, while every 
term brings with it some new and difficult study, with 
which the mind is much occupied, and often much per- 
plexed, the Bible is too frequently treated with com- 
parative neglect. And not unfrequently young preach- 



JAMES BRAINERD TATLOH. 43 

ers manifest more intimate acquamtance with critical 
rules, and the arguments of polemics, than with the 
Holy Scriptures. But nothing can compensate the 
preacher for the want of a thorough knowledge of the 
Bible. It ought to be treasured up in the memory, and 
made the subject of daily meditation and prayer. Now, 
if a young man will, when he enters his preparatory 
course, adopt James B. Taylor's rule, and every night, 
before retiring to rest, commit to memory a short por- 
tion of *the Bible, selecting those parts which may 
make suitable subjects for meditation and devotional 
exercise the next day, he may, by the time he enters 
the ministry, have half the Bible by heatt. And he 
may be so familiar with its contents, as to be able, 
when performing missionary services, to prepare ser- 
mons which shall be full of pertinent scriptural illus- 
tration and proof, without the help of a concordance. 
The facilities which such preparation as this would 
afiford are invaluable. But in addition to this, if the 
truth is the only instrument of sanctification, what bet- 
ter means for growth in grace can be adopted, than this 
daily increase of scriptural knowledge ? Let students 
of theology read the Bihle — let them sttUly the Bible 
—let them pray over the Bible,* 

*Naie by a friend.— Mr. Tay1or*s familiarity with the con- 
teDts of the Bible was observable by all with whom he asso 
eiated. It was an interesting trait in bis habits of intercourse 
with friends, that, when the conversation seemed at a stand, ho 
would take out his little pocket Bible, saying, ** I gtteas I can 
find something here to amuse us ;" and then would give a fa- 
miliar exposition of some passage, and connect with the illus- 
tration some anecdote ; at the same time repeating, and turn- 
ing to parallel passages; so that no one could listen to him 
withoat being deeply interested. So pecoUarly happy was he 



44 MEMOIR or 

We have now seen with what views and feelings 
James B. Taylor began his preparations for the minis- 
try. Let us next see how he preserved the spirit with 
which he set out ; and what measures he adopted to pre- 
pare for the office which he so ardently desired. 

Before he had been one month at Lawrenceville, he 
established, and with his pious fellow-students con- 
ducted a weekly prayer-meeting, about three miles from 
the village. It was among a people, the most of whom 
seldom or never attended church. But yet, woft by the 
kind attentions of these young men, they came together 
weekly, in considerable numbers, to hear hymns sung^ 
listen to instruction, and join in prayer to the Father 
of all. After giving to a friend an account of this place, 
and of the spiritual condition of the people, Mr. Taylor 
adds, in a tone of peculiar earnestness, " There I hope 
TO BE USEFUL' " This is the true spirit of the pulpit. 
A man who enters it with any other view, had better 
be any where else in the wide world. 

There is need, therefore, that the candidate for the 
ministry, as well as the preacher of the Gospel, should 
watch the movements of his heart ; and every hour 
that he should pray, '^ Hold thou me up, and I shall 
be safe." 

This prayer-meeting, which had been established on 

in theie familiar illuftrations, that it wai not an nnfreqnent 
thing to see those aronnd him smile with delight, and at the 
next moment weep with deep emotion. There are many* who 
were often in his society, who will recognize the truth of this 
remark in their own experience. He would often speak of his 
Bible, as "the dear Utile bookJ** I was present at his examina- 
tion, and never heard any man quote the Sacred Scriptures 
with such fluency, for confirmation of his doctrinal views, «• 
the queitions were luccessiTely proposed to hun. 



JAMES BEAXMERO TAYLOR. 46 

Friday eveDing, was changed to Sabbath afternoon ; 
and was regularly attended by Mr. Taylor. The re- 
ligious exercises thus held, soon produced a desire for 
further information ; and a Bible class was formed, 
which he was requested to superintend. A short time 
afterwards, the young ladies of Lawrenceville volun- 
tarily associated in a similar class, to meet before 
church time on Sabbath morning, and desired him to 
hear their recitations. To each of these requests he 
assented. And thus his Sabbaths were fully occupied 
in labors to do and to obtain good. At 10 o'clock he 
met the Bible class in Lawrenceville; at 11 he went 
to church ; and after dinner walked three miles to hear 
his Bible class in the country, after which he attend- 
ed the prayer-meeting, where he read a sermon, fre- 
quently addressed the people, sung thrice, ofiered two 
prayers, and sometimes held conversations on the sub- 
ject of religion. This showed great earnestness of 
desire to be doing something for the cause of Christ 
and the good of men. His letters give some interest- 
ing accounts of the efifects of this prayer-meeting. To 
one of his sisters he writes thus : 

** Lawrenceville, June 19, 1820. 

" ' To do good and communicate forget not,' is a 
maxim which we should keep in continual remem- 
brance. The more we conform our lives to it, the 
greater will be our resemblance to our blessed Savior, 
as he lived among men. To do good, we must seek 
opportunities ; and then opportunities will frequently 
find U3. Since reading Cotton Mather's ^ Essays to 
do Good,' I feel that I have been exceedingly defi- 
cient. In looking back to the time when I first mad^ 



46 MBMOUl Off 

a public profession of religion— -'(you know that thongh 
distant from each other, and unapprised of our respec- 
tive intentions, we both made the same solemn pro- 
fession on the same day) — on looking back, I am con- 
strained to say, O what a barren fig-tree I haye been I 
my leanness ! my leanness ! But blessed be the LfOrd| 
I have a desire to do good now. 

'^ No doubt you wish to hear something of my prayer ' 
meeting. On Sabbath afternoon, at four, I meet about 
one hundred people, assembled in two rooms, most of 
whom are ignorant of God. I stand in the door be- 
tween, and generally read to them a sermon ; after 
which I sometimes speak a few words of exhortation. 
As yet I have seen no effect, except that they have 
become more attentive ; and instead of profaning the 
Sabbath by laboring in the fields, &c. they are seen 
at the meeting. I trust that good seed is sowing, and 
that it will spring up in due time. Pray that it may ; 
and engage your Christian sisters to pray for me. The 
Lord has done great things for us, whereof we are 
glad. Then for his distinguishing mercy, let us distin- 
guish ourselves by our piety, our love to God and men." 

To C H . 

** LaiorenceviUe, July 12, 1890. 

" That millions of souls are perishing, is a truth 
that ought to have a place in all our thoughts. And 
we may profitably inquire, what can we do to meliorate 
their condition 1 This ruin is not confined to heathen 
lands — it is at our doors and our fire-sides. Num- 
bers near ns are dying for want of the bread of life. 
To these last, sitoated as we are, our attention is now 



JAMES BaAINERD TaITLOK. 47 

called. What Providence may do for the fonner, in 
the course of time, by oiir instrumentality, we know 
not. The Head of the church, who qualifies his ser- 
vants to do his work, disposes of them as ' seemeth 
him good.' But what are we doing for those that are 
near to ns ? My brother, I presume that you are faith- 
ful — I hope you are. For my part, I have to confess 
with shame my many omissions. My failings stare 
me in the face. * A beam is in my own eye? 

" But now I will inform you what I have been en- 
deavoring to do. The opportunity was afforded to 
me of attempting something, by a recess of three days 
in our school. On Sunday, the 2d instant, I went as 
usual to attend my prayer-meeting, and found the 
bouse filled to overflowing. At the close of the meet- 
ing, according to my previous plan, I told the people 
that I intended to spend two days in visiting, from 
house to house, as man)& of them as I could. Accord- 
ingly I commenced on Sunday evening my new em- 
ployment. At the first house where I called, I found 
a young person greatly distressed on account of sin. 
This case of awakening had occurred at our prayer- 
meeting. There was very great distress. I endea- 
vored to offer such instruction as suited the case ; and 
I have strong hope that there will soon be joy and 
peace in believing. I say no more of this case, but 
only ask you to pray, — At the next house where I 
stopped, I found no appearance of religion. You can 
form a pretty good idea of what I said in such cases. 

" On Monday I made ten visits. In these I found 
four Christians and some persons well disposed to- 
wards religion, but the great majority caring only for 
the perishing things of this world. At the house where 



48 MEMom Of 

I tarried that night, I found a young lady, in ciieum- 
stances similar to those of the person first mentionei^ 
bowed down under a sense of sin, and earnestly desi- 
ring the one thing needful. This greatly encouraged 
me ; for I do believe that she is seeking the way of 
truth, ' the good old way.' Here also I met with one 
who appeared to be a Christian indeed. O how plea- 
sant ! It is like a well of water in a thirsty land. 

" On Tuesday I called at ten houses. At most of 
them I presented one or more Tracts, such as I thought 
most likely to be useful. This was the fourth of July. 
In the evening I had many reflections on the manner 
in which I had spent the day, so totally different from 
that in which I had heretofore spent that anniversary. 
O how much greater cause of triumph, to be instru- 
mental in delivering one soul from the power of sin 
and Satan, than to be the conqueror of nations ! The 
contrast will be fully seen only above, 

" On the following day I attended the installment 
of the Rev. G. S. W , at Princeton, and a so- 
lemn time it was. O C , the awful responsibili- 
ties of the office to which we are looking forward ! It 
is connected directly with the solemnities of the 
judgment-day. Should the Lord see fit to put us into 
that station, the souls of those to whom we preach 
will be profited or injured by us. But the duties of 
the pulpit are not all — that of visiting, we know, is 
expected. When I anticipate the time of my being a 
preacher, my mind dwells on this as a delightful task. 

" By visiting, the pastor knows all the wants of his 
(lock, and performs indeed the kindest part of thf 
shepherd's office. Since I wrote to you last, the younf 
ladies of Lawrenceville have formed a Biblu clasi 



JAMES BftA12«£&D..TAlrl.0R. 49 

and solicited me to hear tlieir recitations. I vths glad 
to comply with their request. To render t bis measure 
beneficial, I have determined to make it a kind of pravr 
er-meeting. The recitation is always opened with 
prayer, and closed with singing. Thus, you see, my 
duties increase; and I hope that it will be so as long 
as I live. May I have that wisdom from above which 
is profitable to direct; may the word of truth dwell in 
me richly in all wisdom ! This increase of duties con- 
vinces me that the grace afforded for yesterday will 
not supply ray wants to-day. I trust that I have not 
been called to this place for nothing. That I may be 
useful, is my desire. If my heart does not deceive 
me, I long to spend and be spent for Christ." 

These extracts will serve to show how this devoted 
young Christian endeavored, while pursuing his stu- 
dies, to strengthen the desire of being useful. In the 
sequel we shall see more of his labors, and of their 
results both in regard to himself and to others. 

While thus engaged in LawrenceviDe, he felt the 
deepest solicitude respecting the spiritual interests of 
his near relations. He had natural aflection in unu- 
sual strength, and it mingled in all its power with his 
religious feelings. Every letter to his parents, bro- 
thers and sisters, breathes the most earnest desires 
that those who were Christians might advance in holi- 
ness, and that the others might feel all the power of 
divine truth, and be brought to a saving knowledge of 
Jesus Christ. 

To his Parents. 

" The other evening, as I was reflecting on the pas- 
sage of Scripture contained in 2 Cor. 5 : 10, * For we 

5 J.lV.T«:iV»t. 



60 KfiMQW or 

must all appear before the jadgment-teat of Chnsf| 
that every one may receive the things done in the bo- 
dy, according to that he hath done, whether it be good 
or bad j' I thought on the sitaation of my fellow-men 
who reject the offers of mercy ! Alas ! where will 
the sinner appear in the great day of the Lord, when 
the elements shall melt with fervent heat, and the 
earth shall be burned up ? In thinking of our relatives, 
I could call to mind but few who had devoted them- 
selves to Christ. And, when my thoughts turned to 
our own family, they dwelt on some who had arrived 
at years of discretion, but who had not given them- 
selves to the Lord. Oh ! shall they — can they perish ? 
May God interpose for them, that not one, at the last, 
may be * found a cast-away !* " 

Under a sense of duty to his nearest kindred, James 
B. Taylor had a very delicate task to perform. At 
that time, the only regular worship in his father's 
family was reading prayers on the Sabbath. The ne- 
cessity of a change of heart, it appears, was not duly 
regarded by his father ; and young Taylor was deeply 
distressed under the apprehension that some, whom he 
most loved in the world, were stopping short of that 
religion which the Gospel required. He often resolved 
that he would speak to his venerated father on this 
subject; but filial fear and youthful dilEdence pre- 
vented. At length he resolved that he would write. 
But a direct address might appear as though the son 
were taking the place of the parent. Accordingly he 
determined to select as a subject, '^ The idea of a well 
regulated family." On this he wrote, in the form of 
letters to his parents, three essays ; in which he con* 



IAMB8 BftAUiSRO TAYLOR. 51 

sidered all the usual topics of order, industry , econo- 
my, &c. ; but with these he gave a very correct view 
of the religious obligations of heads of families. Af- 
ter going over the whole subject, he put the question 
to his parents, whether their views coincided with his 
on tbose important points, and on the obligations of 
parents. He then, in turn, addressed his sisters on 
the subject of vital, experimental religion, with great 
earnestness ; rejoicing on account of those members 
of the family who gave evidence of piety, and express- 
ing the deepest solicitude in regard to the rest. These 
letters exhibit the writer in a most interesting point of 
view. Few Christians feel as they ought their obli- 
gations to the souls of their near kindred ; and many 
who do in some degree appreciate them, are so injudi- 
cious in respect to time, manner, and spirit, as to do 
harm in many cases where they meant to do good. It 
was not so in this instance. James B. Taylor^s labors 
of love were blessed in an eminent degree to his kin- 
dred, as will more fully appear in the sequel. 

It appears from his correspondence, that he was 
very careful in keeping a diary, in which he noted 
down his religious exercises, his joys and sorrows, his 
performances of duty, and his sins. But there only 
remain parts of his journal from the years 1823 to 
1827 ; the rest have been destroyed. His confidential 
letters which have been preserved, show great vigi- 
lance of self-inspection, much humility under a sense 
of defective holiness, and strong desires to make 
greater advances in the knowledge of Christ ; as will 
appear from the following extracts of letters to an emi* 
nent Christian, with whom he corresponded in terms 
of the greatest intimacy. 



fS2 MEMOIR t)F 

'<Jlftty9, 1580. 

'^ Alas ! how distressing to the soul is a sense of 
the departure of the Comforter ! Let me call on yon 
to unite with me in praising the Lord that the dark- 
ness has, in some degree, gone by. The billows have 
rolled over me ; but thanks to our blessed Lord that 
his mercy was not clean gone for ever, * Bless the 
Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his 
holy name,' for the Sun of righteousness has risen 
upon me." 

" Jttiyll, 1820. 

" Do you ask, * how is it with you V Oh , I am 

the same inconstant, unsteady one you have always 
seen me to be; the same unfruitful vine, on which 
barrenness seems to be written. O sin, thou art the 
enemy of my soul ! It is for this my heart is pained. 
It is the cause of all our trouble in this world ; and 
while it digs graves for our bodies, it kindles the fires 
of hell for the souls of those who love it. But I think 
that I really hate sin and love holiness. Yet I must 
say that I am not satisfied with any of my perform- 
ances, because so much sin is mixed with them. No^ 
thing short of perfect holiness can ever satisfy the 
soul." 

« Nwembcr 18, 1820. 

* I feel myself, as heretofore, unworthy of the re- 
gard of my Christian friends ; and at times I am as- 
tonished that any should love such a one as I am. 
Surely if they could see me as I sometimes see my- 
self, they would wonder too. Alas ! in all things I 
come short, and in many I ofiend. Yet I bless the 



iAMEM BRAIHERD TAYLOR. G8 

Lord for what he has done for me, and I rely on hit 
grace to make me more like himself. My soul daily 
pants for more holiness, more deYotedness to the cause 
of my Redeemer ; and through him I do hope to he 
made useful." 

To another friend, a candidate for the ministry, he 
says : 

" Fdtruary 10, 1890. 

" I wish that I could give you some good account 
of myself. But I am too little engaged in my Master's 
service. Spiritual pride, that bane of the human soul, 
lurks within me, and is ever ready to destroy my 
peace. Many and strong are my temptations to sin. 
Sometimes I stand strong; and then I am brought 
low. But this I can say, that with divine help 1 will 
serve the Lord. I am determined to carry on the war- 
fare until every enemy is subdued." 

It would seem, from the style of his letters about 
this period, that his reading for spiritual improvement 
was much in the old writers of the seventeenth cen- 
tury, those noble n^n, who, with some quaintness of 
manner, showed a most intimate acquaintance with 
the Bible, a profound knowledge of the most secret 
workings of the human heart, and a fervor of piety 
rarely equalled in the world. Writing to a friend, 
who had been walking in 4&rkness, he addressed him 
in language certainly derived from these sources, as 
the following sentences will show. " The greater the 
conquest, the brighter the crown. Stars shine bright- 
est in the darkest night— torches are better for beat- 
ing. Grapes come not to the proof till they come to 

5* 



54 MEMOIR or 

the press. Spices smell best when bruised. Young 
trees root the faster for shaking : gold looks bnghtei 
for scouring: juniper smells sweetest in the fire : the 
palm-tree proves the better for pressing. Camomile, 
the more you tread it, the more you spread it. Such 
is the condition of God's dear children: they are then 
most triumphant when most tempted ; most glorious 
when most afflicted ; most in favor with God wheb 
least in man's and least in their own ; as their con- 
flicts so their conquests ; as their tribulations so their 
triumphs : true salamanders, that live best in the fur- 
nace of persecution. So that heavy afflictions are the 
best benefactors of heavenly affections ; and where 
afflictions hang heaviest, corruptions hang loosest; 
and grace that is hid in nature, as sweet water in 
rose leaves, is then most fragrant when the fire of af- 
fliction is put under to distil it out. Let us then be 
encouraged, in all our trials, to say, 'Hope thou in 
God, for I shall yet praise him.' " 

In the year 1820, on a day appointed for humilia- 
tion, thanJESgiving, and prayer, he felt it to be his du- 
ty to retire, and especially to note down topics for 
meditation suitable to the season. 

Reasons for thankfulness. 

1. That through the greater part of his life he had 
enjoyed good health, while many had sufiered much 
pain and sickness. 

2. That the necessities of nature had been abun- 
dantly supplied, while many had pined in want. 

3. Civil, and especially reb'gious liberty. On this 
he dwells with peculiar interest and force ; contrast- 
ing our situation with that of most nations of the earths 



,, JAMES BRAINEBD TAYLOR. 55 

• 4. But that which calls for double thanks^ is the 
foundation and preservation of the church, the preach- 
ing of the Gospel, and the enjoymentTof religion in 
its purity. 

. 5. A very special reason for thankfulness, is the 
number and the power of revivals of religion, as they 
had occurred during the preceding year. 

6. Next to this he places pious relations and friends. 

7. Last, though not least, he places the dispensation 
of Providence, which had carried him to Lawrence- 
ville to study for the ministry. Great honor had thus 
been conferred on him, and heavy responsibilities laid 
on him. 

This leads him to ask wbat he had rendered to the 
Lord for all his mercies. And this question suggests 
causes for humiliation. 

1. Neglect of opportunities of doing good. 

2. Backsliding, coldness, formality in religious 
service. 

3. The imperfection of his eofample as a Christian. 

4. Negligence in self-examination and closet exer- 
cises generally. * 

His prayer is for an increase of true religion, espe- 
cially in himself: that he may to faith add virtue ; to 
virtue knowledge ; to knowledge temperance ; to tem- 
perance patience ; to patience godliness ; to godliness 
brotherly kindness, and to brotherly kindness charity. 

Thus we see how James Brainerd Taylor spent the 
first year of his preparatory course, in respect to the 
oultivation of his heart and the acquirement of a spirit 
suited to the pulpit. 

On the first day of January, 1821, he writes to one 
of his most valued Christian friends as follows : 



56 MLMOIR OP ,. 

*' I have found this a good day to my soul ; and«I 
know that you will be gratified to hear some of the 
particulars. This morning I returned home from a 
prayer-meeting, which I conducted last evening, about 
four and a half miles from L. Of this meeting I "wili 
tell you more by and by. On my arrival I retired to 
iny room, and found it good to spend half an hour on 
my knees ; because it was delightful to adore and praise 
the greatness, goodness, mercy, and long suffering pa- 
tience of Grod ; it was good to have the privilege of 
pouring out my heart before him. O how astonishing- 
ly condescending is that great and fearful One, 'who 
inhabiteth eternity and the praises thereof,' that he 
should deign to visit a worm, a creature of a day, 
whose tabernacle is in the dust ! I felt myself ' less 
than the least of all his mercies.' But the Lord does 
condescend to regard those whose hearts are broken 
on account of sin. He will give ear to their supplica- 
tions, while they pour out their hearts before him, and 
cast their burdens, however great, on him. They are 
privileged to tell him all — ^guilt and fear, sins ana sor- 
rows, cares and crosses, wants ahd dangers, weak- 
nesses and temptations, darkness, ignorance, doubts, 
anxieties, whether for themsehes or others, the church 
or the world. I found it good, while I was ready to 
hide my face for shame, to confess my short-comings, 
my negligence, my wanderings from the path of duty 
during the past year. I found it good to cry for mercy 
to pardon, and for grace to help in time to come ; good 
to bless, and praise, and magnify the holy name of thO' 
Lord, for his loving-kindness in giving me a goodly 
heritage, and casting my lot in pleasant places. I 
found it good to lay my necessities before himy and to 



JAMES BRMNERD TAYLOR. 57 

offer my body a living sacrifice to him, whose I am, 
by creation, preservation, redemption, and 1 hope by 
adoption. I found it good, and at this season peculiar- 
ly solemn, to dedicate myselt, and all that I have and 
am, to his service and glory, and resolve, through 
grace, to walk in the way of his commandments, and 
do as well as suJQfer his whole will concerning me. I 
found it good to plead that I might have faith, hope, 
and charity ; that I might be crucified unto the world, 
and the world be crucified unto me ; that I might be 
delivered in time of trouble, and have grace to over- 
come all my spiritual enemies ; that I might be hum- 
ble, ever lying at the foot of the cross, and looking to 
the Savior as my sacrifice, my advocate with the Fa- 
ther, my prevailing intercessor, my salvation^ yea, ail 
my salvation and desire for time and for eternity. 
Yes, I found it good to call on the name of the Lord ; 
and afterwards I found it good to read the Scriptures, 
to meditate and engage in self-examination. 

" Part of the afternoon I spent in visiting my ac- 
quaintances. I called to see a daughter of affliction, 
one of whom I have spoken to you before. She has 
not, for eighteen years, been free from lameness ; and 
for 8ixteen has been entirely unable to walk. Yet she 
rejoices in the midst of all her sufi^erings, knowing 
that the rod which is on her is not that of a tyrant, but 
of her heavenly Father, who afflicts, but not willing- 
ly, the children of men. She triumphs in the prospect 
before her, and well she may, for there remaineth for 
her a rest beyond the skies. I found it good to be with 
this sufifering Christian. 

'^ The evening has been spent in worshiping the 
Lord, and in supplicating his blessing on a ruined 



£8 MEMOIR or 

world. It was good to be there. And now I find if 
good to address my friend in Christ. 

^^ But I must tell you more of the meeting which I 
attended last evening. And I have good news for you, 
tidings which have gladdened the hearts of some here, 
and have occasioned joy in heaven. In that neighbor^ 
hood about twenty souls have, as we hope, been bom 
again. The meeting last night was a solemn one — the 
attention of the audience was fixed, while I addressed 
them for more than half an hour. After singing and 
prayer, I addressed them again. The meeting then 
closed, and they who had been lately brought into the 
kingdom stood around, while I conversed with them, 
for the purpose of encouraging them to be steadfast, 
and to tight manfully**the battles of the great Captain 
of salvation. The converts are mostly young, one not 
more than thirteen years old. The good work seems 
to be increasing. May it go on and prosper, and spread 
all around. 

"Thus, , you see how I spent the last even- 
ing of the old year, and the first day of the new. May 
every succeeding day and year find us ripening for 
that place where time and change are unknown — for 
a seat at God's right hand, where are pleasures for 
evermore ! We shall be satisfied, when we awake in 
his likeness. Pray for me, that I may be humble and 
faithful." 

" January 7, 1821. 

*' On asking myself this evening how shall I answer 
life's great end, which is to glorify God ? the follow- 
ing passage of Scripture came into my mind : Titus, 
2 : 12, ' Teaching us, that, denymg ungodliness and 



^AHES BRAUIEBD TAYLOIU S^ 

worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and 
godly, in this present world.' O how much is com* 
prised in this lesson ! It comprises all branches of our 
duty — what we owe to ourselves, to our fellow-meni 
and to our Creator. ' To deny ungodliness and world- 
ly lust,' what is it but to abandon all those evil courses 
which wicked men are found in ? * To live soberly,' 
is in a right manner to govern all our appetites and 
passions. To live * righteously,' is to do to others as 
we would that they should do to us. And to live 
* godly.' is to hold communion with the Father, and 
his Son Jesus Christ. O 1 how fit and right is it that 
we should thus live. It is a life such as this which is 
connected with ' peace in beliejing,' and 'joy in the 
Holy Ghost.' 

" You concluded your last letter with the exhorta- 
tion of the apostle, ' To do good and ^communicate, 
forget not.' I add, as a comment, 

' Blest is the man who spends his day 

In aets of good to those around ; 
His is the path %vhich surely ends 
Where all shall be with glory crowu*d.* ** 

His deep concern for the salvation of his kindred, 
and his endeavors to promote a more spiritual religion 
in his father's family, have already been mentioned. 
In May of this year he adopted the expedient of ad* 
dressing a letter to his parents, brothers and sisters, 
who were heads of families. The general subject ol 
this letter is the responsibility of parents. It is a re- 
markable instance of delicate fidelity. The duties of 
the relation are urged with great earnestness, and in a 



60 MEMOIR OF 

manner well suited to make any one, who had not 
taken a decided stand on the suhject of religion in bis 
family, deeply feel his deficiency. But in it there is 
nothing inconsistent with the highest filial reyerence, 
and the respect due from a younger to his elder 
brothers. 

To the letter is subjoined a long postscript, address- 
ed to two young sisters who had not manifested any 
serious concern for the salvation of their souls. It con- 
tains a most solemn and affectionate wariling of their 
danger, and entreaties that they would, in early life, 
devote themselves with all the heart to the service of 
their Creator and Redeemer. To his mother he wrote 
as follows, April 15, 1821, the day he was twenty 
years old : 

*'• The day of my birth I hope that I shall, at all 
times, have reason to bless and observe with thankftd 
remembrance. But I hope that I shall have more abun- 
dant reason to bless and triumph in the day of my 
death, because I trust it will introduce me into a new 
and glorious existence. 

" O I my dear mother, how much have I cost you. 
In my infancy, while hanging on your breast, I doubt 
not that I witnessed maoy a tear and many an anx- 
ious sigh, although entirely unconscious of your soli- 
citude and of my helplessness. O what tenderness 
was manifested to me ! what care to rear me up and 
preserve me from every ill ! How many sleepless nights 
have you spent on my account ! Did the thought at 
that period ever enter your mind, that you were train- 
ing up a little immortal, destined to be a servant of 
the Most High ? Did you look on me as one whom 



JAMES BHUNERD tAYLOR. 01 

you might afterwards bear, as a herald of the cross, 
bearing the unsearchable riches of Christ, preaching 
a crucified Sarior to guilty and dying man 1 

" Instead of indulging such pleasing hopes, perhaps 
my fond mother thought of the innumerable evils to 
which I might be exposed in the slippery paths of 
youth ; or of the no less numerous dangers with which 
manhood is surrounded. You might have contempIa< 
ted me as a companion of those TiiJ|9 wander from the 
ways of the Lord, and walk m the paths of the de« 
stroyer. And perhaps in your paaternal fears you sigh' 
ed and said, Can it — ah I shall it ever be — that this 
child will bring grief to his father, and sorrow to the 
mother who bore him ? Did you not pray that God 
would undertake for me, and avert the storms to which 
the young voyager of life would be exposed ? He has 
heard your prayers ; an answer has been sent ; but not 
before I had done much to blast your hopes and in- 
crease your fears. O ! how kind, how gracious was 
the unseen, but not unfelt hand, that turned me from 
my evil ways, and ' sweetly forced me in.' Well may 
I sing songs of deliverance, and shout — * a miracle of 
grace !' " 

He then adverts to a very dangerous attack of ty- 
phus fever, which he had m his twelfth year, when 
every one expected that he would die ; and, to heighten 
his feelings of filial gratitude, dwells on the great 
kindness of his mother, in watching by him and nurs- 
ing him during his protracted illness. 

It seems that his death appeared so certain, that 
some kind friend prepared a shroud for him. On allud- 
mg tc this circamstance, he asks, with great solemni- 

5 4.1i.Tu^\ot 



(12 MEUO» OF 

ty, Mother, "how were you exercised when taktof^ 
your last look at me ? Alas ! had I been cut down as 
a cumberer of the ground — my peace was not then 
made with God — death would have consigned me to 
the * blackness of darkness, and to everlasting despair. 
Who but God could have averted the stroke which 
was leveled at my head 1 

" But your son, who was once on the verge of the 
grave, yet lives ; and lives in the enjoyment of hea- 
ven's blessing. He has been spared, and permitted to 
indulge the hope of being extensively useful in the 
church. At least, his desire is to spend his days in 
the cause of that d^r Redeemer who gave his soul a 
sacrifice for sin, ^ that we might not perish, but have 
everlasting life.' To compensate you for your sighs 
and tears, your fearful apprehensions and anxieties, 
see what God hath wrought. Out of our number it 
seems that he bath chosen me to be a minister of the 
everlasting Gospel. May I be prepared to labor in his 
vineyard ! 

** I expect to occupy my present place for two years 
after the ensuing fall. I expect then to enter college, 
so advanced as to remain there only two years. After 
which I shall go to the theological seminary for three 
years. As to my life after that, I can make no conjec- 
ture. Only I can say, that I hope to devote my life to 
tne service of God, soul, body, and spirit. Yes, I had 
rather fall a sacrifice to my labors than be lukewarm 
and dead in his service. My whole self I would con- 
secrate to him, in whatever sphere the Lord of the 
harvest may see fit to appoint me to labor ; whether at 
home or abroad, on the land or on the sea. 

" God has blessed us both, and been very kind to 



JAMES BRAINERD TATLOB. 03 

Qs in times past — let us trust in him for time to come. 
The Lord has blessed you, my mother, in permitting 
you to see the prospect of my entering the ministry; 
and he has blessed you in your other children, my dear 
brothers and sisters. May they, who hare professed 
the religion of Christ, be faithful, and keep their gar* 
ments unspotted from the world. And may the rest, 
who are yet far off, be brought nigh, and be united 
with us in the bonds of an everlasting covenant ; may 
the Lord by his Spirit convince them of sin, of righte- 
ousness, and of judgment, and make them heirs of the 
grace of life, that parents and children may all unite 
in anthems of praise in the upper sanctuary." 

The letter concludes with particular addresses to 
the several members of the family, containing appro- 
priate and most earnest exhortations. 

To C H 

"jMty5, 1821. 
** II7 Brother, 

*' O that I could, with the humble confidence of a 
little child, raise my voice to heaven, and with the 
faith of assurance cry, ^Abba, Father! my Father 
— my reconciled Father and portion, in and through 
Jesus Christ. O that I could lift up my heart, hav- 
ing the witness of the Spirit, and say to Jesus, my 
Savior and Redeemer from sin and death ; my advo- 
cate with the Father, and prevailing intercessor ; my 
prophet, priest, and king ; my salvation ; my all in all ! 
O that I could know the Holy Spirit to be my sancti- 
fier, guide and comforter !' But, to my shame, I do not 
possess that unshaken confidence which I want. I can 



6^ MEMOIR OF 

indeed say, that not this world, nor ten tnousand more, 
could purchase the hope which I have. And if I know 
ray own heart, I do think that the desire to have Qod 
as my Father, Jesus as my Savior, and the Holy Spirit 
as my Sanctifier, is predominant. But yet I feel that 
whereas I ought to be a full grown man in Christ, I 
am only a babe. To think that I have been now five 
years a professor of religion, and have made so little 
progress, is indeed a cutting thought. Alas, I feel my- 
self to be far behind those who set out with me in the 
divine life. 

' O for a breeze, a beavenly gale, 
* To waft me through this gloomy vale, 
' That I may join the joyful band 
' In Canaan's fair and happy land.* 

" Since our last separation, my course has been va- 
ried. The Lord has been good. I have had seasons of 
enjoyment. Blessed be our heavenly Father, that I 
should at any season be permitted to sip of the good 
cup by the way. To many the water of life is dealt 
out more bountifully. My unfaithfulness and unbelief 
hinder the blessing. O how much reason have I to 
chide and upbraid myself for past offences. 

" While we are preparing for the holy ministry, and 
looking forward to it, our constant desire should be to 
bring maoy sons and daughters into the kingdom : also 
to build up the humble believer in his most holy faith. 
And what a delightful task will that be to us ! While 
we are in the school of the prophets, may the Lord 
impart to us a right knowledge of ourselves and of 
him — may he endow us plentifully with heavenly gifts 
— convince us thoroughly of sin — ^give us true, un- 



JAMES BR At NERO TAYLOR. 65 

feigned repentance — strong faith in Jesus Christ — and 
that zeal and love which characterize the humhle, 
meek, lowly, devoted, self-denying, spiritual, heaven- 
ly-mi uded child of God — and thus furnish us for every 
good work. Whether we shall ever go into the vine- 
yard of our Lord, is known only to him. The harvest 
truly is great, and the laborers are few. Should we 
enter the field, may we be found wise as serpents and 
harmless as doves — baptized with the Holy Ghost and 
with fire. 

'^ But I think that our views should not be altogether 
directed to the end of our preparatory course. There 
are many opportunities now of doing good. The call 
from many a lowly cottage is, ^ Come over and help 
U8 P And we ought to inquire for persons to whom 
we may be useful. If indeed we feel as we ought, we 
hold ourselves to be very small and unworthy. But 
we are looked upon by those around us as having al- 
iready entered on a ministerial course, and we have a 
particular character to sustain. Occupying such a situ- 
ation, how necessary it is that we should be circum- 
spect, and walk worthy of our vocation. 

'* A few days since, I had some interesting intelli- 
gence from the east. The good work appears to be go- 
im^ on. Some, whom I left distressed, have obtained 
a hope. The time is coming, when ' a nation shall be 
bom in a day.' We may see greater things than our 
eyes have ever yet witnessed. O ! may the precious- 
ness of immortal souls, and our responsibility to God, 
to ourselves, and to others, be written on our hearts, 
as with a pen of iron and the point of a diamond. And 
may we be kept very humble, and very sensible of o"' 

•ntire dependence ! Farewell." 

6* 



66 MEMOIR OP 

To his sister M— 



"Jli^, 1881. 
*^ Perhaps you may wish to know how I have em* 
ployed myself during the past session. O that I could 
tell you I had heen faithful ! But alas ! in all things I 
come short, and in many I offend. However, I have 
endeavored to do, at least, a little for my Redeemer, 
by visiting the people of this neighborhood, and eaor 
versing with them on the concerns of their souls. la 
several instances I have been encouraged. The pray- 
er-meetings are continued every other Sabbath. I have 
also been engaged in several other places. I am about 
establishing a Sunday school for colored people at the 
village where I hold my meetings. I hope that you 
are actively engaged in your sphere. Our working days 
will soon be over, and the consideration ought to sink 
deep into our hearts. Souls may be waiting for us to 
be the means of their conversion. ' Up and be doing/ 
should be our motto.*' 



To 



" October, 1821. 
**Knowi0g that you feel anxious about your friend, 
I give you early information of my safe arrival in L., 
and of the improvement of my health. I am nearly 
well of my cold — but alas ! I am compelled to say that 
my heart i« not warm on a subject on which I oaght 
to be all on fire. Pray for me. that the Sun of righte« 
onsnesA may arise with healing in his beams ; that my 
doubts and feare may all be removed ; that my sorrow 
r med into joy. You know how painful it is 



JAMES BRAINESD TAYLOR. 67 

to be under a cloud. But, blessed be the Lord, I know 
that I do want more religion, and that my chief desire 
is to be holy. Nothing can satisfy me but the eternal 
fountain of life and light. 

' Retnm, O holy Doye, retiim, 
' Sweet messenger of rest; 
I hnte the sins that made thee mouni, 
* And drove thee from my breast.' 

"After I had written the preceding, (the other evenr 
ing,) I laid aside my paper and took hold of Clarke 
on the Promises^ when I met with the following has- 
sage: ^ The eternal God is thy refage, and underneath 
thee are the everlasting arms. He shall drive out the 
enemy before thee; and shall say, Destroy them? 
From this I derived some encouragement. I have since 
found it good to wait on the Lord ; and feel strength- 
ened to persevere. Pray for me, that I may holdfast^ 
and hold on to the end. 

^^ December 8. — I have reason to praise the Lord 
for his goodness to fiiy soul since I wrote the forego- 
ing. Last Monday night particularly was a season of 
enjoyment to me. I enjoyed a delightful ' time of re- 
freshing from the presence of the Lord.' It was our 
monthly prayer-meeting. I trust that I have not lost 

the blessed Savior yet. The world and all its enjoy- 
ments appeared, and do still appear diminutive and 
transitory. I felt, and still feel determined, the Lc rd 
helping tsu^ to live nearer to him—^O for grace o 
.(nrehbnmoie."' 



68 MBMOXB 0r 

ToC 



** LaiortnceciilCt Dee, 1, 18SI. 

"' Since I wrote last, I have made quite a tour through 
Connecticut. The occasion was this. While going to 
New-York at the commencement of our vacation, on 
hoard the steam-hoat between New-Brunswick and the 
city, I fell in with Major Ridge, an Indian chief, of 
the Cherokee tribe. My becoming acquainted with 
him seemed providential. I saw his credenticUs, which 
were very satisfactory, from our missionaries — and 
fmding him a stranger in a strange land, without a 
guide, I offered to him my friendship. With this he 
seemed to l)c highly gratified. I conversed with him 
as much as I could about his country and its produc- 
tions ; about the missionaries, schools, i&c. among the 
Cherokees. This rendered our trip very agreeable. I 
was particularly pleased to have beside me, from the 
wilderness, one of those for whom so much exertion 
had been made. 

" On our arrival in New-York, I conducted Major 
Ridge to my brother's, where the family immediately 
became interested in him. 

" On Sunday he attended church and prayer-meet- 
ing. In the evening I concluded to accompany him to 
Cornwall, where he had a son at school. Accordingly 
on Monday morning we set out for New-Haven, 
where we tarried for the night. On Tuesday we vent 
to Litchfield. The country is beautifully diversified 
with bill and dale. I passed through the place wheia 
Mr. Newton formerly resided, who went with the last 
mission family to the Osages. 

" I found Litchfield a beautiful place, situated on a 



JAMES BRAIN ERD TAYLOR. 6t^ 

commanding eminence, from which one may look over a 
very fine range of country. There I saw Mr. Nettleton, 

" On Wednesday we arrived at Cornwall. It is a 
small village on a plain surrounded with mountains. 
But to return to my companion. He manifested very 
great pleasure in meeting his son. Both parental and 
filial afiection were strongly displayed. Tears stole 
gently down the cheeks of both father and son ; so that 
for some time they were incapable of much conversa- 
tion. When they had become more composed, the fa- 
ther, through his son, began, apparently with much 
feeling, to express his gratitude for my unexpected at- 
tention. During the afternoon I had an interview 
with the son. He is nearly of my size, about eighteen 
years of age, possesses an intelligent mind, uses good 
language, and exhibits refined manners. He has been 
nearly three years at Cornwall, and has made rapid 
progress. He is regarded as a youth of first rate ta- 
lents. But he appeared quite a stranger to his own 
heart. 

" In the evening I attended a conference meeting 
conducted by the young men, and heard some of the 
heathen youth speak and pray ! David Brown is par- 
ticularly interesting. 

"Next day I had an interview with Major Ridge 
just before I left him. Mr. Brown was my interpreter. 
At the close, the Major gave me the assurance that he 
would hereafter give his wJwle mind to the subject of 
religion. His wife has become a member of l he church 
in the wilderness, and he is desirous of becoming a 
member too. 

" I left Cornwall on Thursday. Mr. Brown accom- 
panied me as far as the burying ground, to view the 



70 MEMOIB 

Stone erected to the memory of Henry Obookiak. 
Many pleasing and many painful ideas are associated 
with that place. It was there David Brown and I said 
farewell, and parted. 

" It will be glad tidings to you to hear that my bro- 
ther F. is expecting to study for the ministry. I haye 
some hope that he will be with me soon. Is not this 
the Lord's doing ? May it prove to be so !" 

The following is from a letter to the Rer. Mr. H — , 
an aged clergyman, with whom he was in habits of 
friendly intercourse, and in whose family he was inti- 
mately acquainted : 

^' Is it well with your youngest daughter ; I mean, is 
she now rejoicing in that ' hope which maketh not 
ashamed, because of the love of Christ shed abroad in 
the heart, through the Holy Spirit given unto her?' 
Such seemed to be her case when I had the pleasure 
of seeing her. And if it be really so, you are ready, 
no doubt, to bless the great Redeemer for his grace in 
thus visiting your house in the decline of life. May 
she grow daily in grace, and in the knowledge of our 
Lord and Savior Jesus Christ ! She has been the 
child of many prayers : may she love to pray, not only 
for herself, but also for others — may I not add, for me 
toOj that the Lord would make me holy in heart and 
in life, to the praise of the glory of his grace ! 

" But when I was with you, your eldest daughter 
could not see that she had passed the line which se- 
parates Christians from the world. May I not hope 
tliat ere this she has submitted herself to Christ ? It 
80, how blessed the change ! a change which has not 



JAMES BBAmEBD TAYLOR. 71 

only imparted peace to her own soul, and gladness to 
her parents and christian friends, but joy to the an- 
gels in heaven. She has had to record one of the hap- 
piest events inUhe annals of her pilgrimage — it is an 
era in her existence, on which she will reflect with 
peculiar pleasure and gratitude, not only in time, but 
through eternity. O that I could know that it is thus 
well with her. But if, indeed, she has made no pro- 
gress ; if she has not yet 'apprehended Christ Jesus' as 
her Savior, and found him the 'chief among ten thou- 
sand,' I would ask her, ivhy is it so 7 ' Is there no 
balm in Gilead j' ' is there no physician there V Has 
not the Father called you ? does not Jesus invite you 
by his life of toil, by his agony in the garden and on 
the cross, by his death and burial, by his resurrection 
and glorious ascension ? And now, being exalted as a 
prince and a Savior, is not his kind and winning lan- 
guage addressed to you, ' Come unto me V All hea- 
ven appears to be engaged to secure the salvation of 
returning sinners. You have been alarmed by feeling 
that you were in the city of destruction ; O stay not in 
ail the plain, lest thou be consumed, but fly to the re- 
fuge provided for sinners by the sinner's Friend. Your 
best interests call for it — the prayers, anxieties, and 
tears of your parents call for it. As you love your 
soul ; as you value your everlasting all ; as you ever 
hope to meet God in peace, and dwell for ever in hea- 
ven, do it. O! do it 1 — May the Lord have you all in 
his holy keeping !" 



72 MEMOIR or 

To hi< Parents. 

«» L 1 December^ 1821. 

**BebvodPorouts, 

^^ When I call to mind that you have not heard from 
me since I left New-York, I feel that I have not mani- 
fested that love for you that I ought. But you will 
excuse me, while I assure you that I find my affection 
for you increasing instead of diminishing. You know, 
my dear father and mother, that nearly two years 
have elapsed since I arrived at this place to begin my 
studies. How rapid has been their progress ! I feel 
disposed to rejoice rather than to mourn that the time 
has sped its flight. I look upon them as two years of 
preparation for that office which I anticipate with 
pleasure. And the faster our years fly, the better, if 
God be our Father, Jesus our Savior, and the Holy 
Spirit our Sanctifier ; for the sooner shall we be waft- 
ed over life's tempestuous sea, and the sooner shall 
we reach the wislied for haven. Glory to our heaven- 
ly Benefactor, for devising the plan of salvation I Glo- 
ry to our Redeemer, who accomplished the mighty 
work ! And glory to the Holy Spirit, who applies it 
to our hearts and consciences ! Everlasting thanks to 
our God, if we have been made partakers of the grace 
of life ; if we are his sons and daughters ! Surely it 
has been a work of his own on our hearts, and we 
oriight to praise him. He is worthy of our highest 
tioinage and best services. Then let us spend the re- 
maining days of our pilgrimage to his honor ; that 90, 
when we are done with earthly things, an abundant 
imtrance may be administered unto us into the ever- 
lasting kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesua Christ. 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 73 

'^ What distinguishing mercy has heen displayed to 
our family ! But to me in particular — to me in paartu 
cular ; and you may well wonder at and admire that 
divine grace which ' sweetly forced me in.' Once I 
was a ehild of many anxieties, and the occasion of 
many sorrows. I feel that in my childhood I often 
caused you to suffer much pain on my account. But 
all was parental tenderness and affection on your part, 

forgive me the foHies of my youthful daya, my 
obstinacy, self-will, disobedience, and rebellion. I 
know that you have forgiven me ; hut I cannot forgive 
myself. No \ my ingratitude to you, the kindest and 
best of parents, is a reproach to me. May God for- 
give me — yea, I trust he has forgiven me, wherein I 
have been guilty in breaking this his command, ' Ho- 
nor thy father and thy mother.' 

" Once my home was under your roof— once I sat 
at your table — once I enjoyed the society of your fa- 
mily circle— and once I could call to you by the en- 
dearing appellation of father and mother. But now I 
am far away. My home, my table, my society, arc 
among strangers. They, however, are ray friends, 
this I am persuaded is of the Lord's kindness. And 
as he has been good to me in times past, I can trust 
him in time to come. 

" Did not the Lord, when he gave me to you, say, 
* Take this child and nurse him for me, and I will 
give thee thy wages.' For all your goodness to me, 
may heaven's best blessings rest upon you. And may 

1 be an honor to my father, and to the mother who 
bore me ! — ^may I glttrify my heavenly Father, and be 
made a blessing to society ! O may I not live a cipher 

7 J. B. Taylor. 



74 MEMom or 

m this world, but be made ezteDsively useful. For this, 
let me ask your continual, earnest, united pfrayers." 

The above extracts from Mr. Taylor's letters show, 
it is thought, very distinctly an increase in his piety 
and in his religious enjoyments. He appears to be 
gradually raising higher his standard of ministerial 
holiness and usefulness, and making progress in real, 
decided, heart-felt religion. 



CHAPTER III. 



Completion of his course in ike Academy. 

On the 1st of January, 1822, we find, in a letter to a 
valued and confidential Christian friend, a brief state- 
ment of his religious views at that period* 

" The last time I wrote, you recollect the state of 
my mind. Since then, the Lord has been better than 
my expectations. I have had some precious seasons. 
1 have known what it is to hold communion with my 
heavenly Father, and with his Son Jesus Christ, 
through the Eternal Spirit. My closet duties have af- 
forded my highest enjoyments ; not always, indeed^ 
equally great, but generally delightful. 

*^ During this year may I, ani* nray you, be more 
than ever engaged in the Lord's service. I am desi- 
rous to spend and be spent for him^to live the life of 



JAMES BRAIMERD TATLOK. 75 

the righteous. But we may not live to see its close. 
This morning I wsis meditating on the words in Matt. 
26 : 18, My time is at hand; and I thought that if it 
should be the Lord's will to take me to himself this 
year, yea, even this day, I should rejoice at my de- 
partare. The grave seemed to lose its terrors — hea- 
ven and its glories appeared to be in sight — my soul 
v/as joyful. O to live religion — to have heaven iu 
view, the love of God in the heart, the world, the flesh 
and the devil under one's feet ! Then, come life, 
come death, a/Z, all will be well. 

" O my friend, I am tired of living hy halves* God 
says, * Son, give me thy heart.' I answer, O for an 
entire surrender — I long for complete deliverance from 
remaining corruption ; for sanctification in soul, body, 
and spirit ; for that perfect love which casteth out all 
fear — and until I attain this, I shall feel that I shall 
be unfit to be a minister of Jesus Christ." 

It deserves to be noticed, that our young friend was, 
in a remarkable degree, exempt from sectarian feelings. 
Among other tokens of enlarged and liberal feeling, it 
may be mentioned that he had correspondence with 
students of theology and private members of several 
religious denominations, and that the interchange of 
fraternal affection and christian exhortation was cha- 
racterized by perfect confidence and entire freedom. 
This is what we may expect, when professors of 
Christianity have the spirit of their religion. It is 
truly a religion of love, which embraces all, of every 
name, who show themselves to be true disciples of 
Jesus Christ. 

From a letter of Major Ridge, dated, ^^ Cherokee 



76 MEMOIR OF 

Nation, Feb. 19, 1822,'' it appears that Mr. Taylor 
had written him, and that his kindness and christian 
faithfulness had deeply impressed his heart. 

" Dear friend, (he says,) we were made acquainted 
by a kind Providence, and I hope I shall never forget 
all your kindness to me. When I think of New-Ycnd^ 
it seems near, and I feel almost as if there. When I 
went there I was a stranger, and you were so kind as 
to be my guide and assistant to the place where my 
son was, for which I am under great obligations of 
gratitude. You not only rendered me all necessary 
assistance on the way, but when we arrived at Corn- 
wall, you was so kind as to converse with me on the 
subject of religion. What you told me I ought to do, 
I am now fully determined to do. I think I can say 
now that I do seek the Savior ; but I do not find him. 
I hope the Lord will hear my prayers, and enable me 
to find the right way. I thank you for, and rejoice to 
think of what you told me. I also rejoice that the 
missionaries here tell me the same ; and that there 
are some, even in this land, who care for my soul.* 

Another extract of a letter addressed to Mr. Taylor, 
Feb. 25, 1822, by one to whom be had been useful in 
an excursion during vacation, will give the readei 
some idea of the active zeal of this young Christian. 

^' On looking back on my life, and recalling past 
scenes, I remember with humility, with love and ado- 
ration, the occurrences of the past year. 1 adore the 
riches of that grace which, I hope, plucked me as a 
brand from everlasting burnings. To you, my friend, 
I feel peculiarly grateful ; and as long as I live, I shall 



JAMES BBAIMBRD TAYLOR. 77 

remember your faithful admonitions and prayers. I 
have reason every day to adore and praise that Provi- 
dence which directed you in my way, and made you 
an instrument of doing much good to my soul. When 
I first saw you I was where I had been for years. I 
knew that I was a sinner; that my situation was 
wretched ; and that remaining where I was, I must pe- 
rish. But y^t I made no exertions to escape. I was 
waiting for the irresistible influences of the Spirit, 
with the excuse that I could do nothing myself. You 
were employed by an overruling hand to rouse me 
from this state of awful stupidity and sin. Your words 
went like daggers to my guilty conscience, and 
wrought that conviction in my soul which I had 
never experienced before. It is needless for me to tell 
you what I then felt, as you were a witness to part of 
my anxiety and distress. You also saw the change 
which took place in my feelings. O happy seasons of 
delight — how I love to call them to remembrance ! 
The Lord has not only been kind to me, but has ex- 
tended his mercy to my beloved companion; and 
while we deserved nothing but wrath, has made us, as 
we hope children of his grace and heirs of everlast- 
ing life." 

It would be easy to give many similar passages 
irom other letters, showing that this young academi- 
cal student was made, to a surprising extent, useful in 
bringing sinners to a knowledge of their condition, and 
conducting them to Jesus Christ as their Savior. 

It is apparent from the following letter to his friend 

H , that his mind was at the same time intent on 

his own preparation for the ministry ; and that while 

7* 



78 MEMOIR OP 

he wished to possess all the intellectual qualiAMtioike 
required, his first object was to make eminent attaii^ 

meuts in holiness. 

» 

" March 9, 18S2. 

" You no doubt rejoice with me that our friend (X 
and my brother F. have given themselves up for the 
work of the holy ministry. O, my brother, what a 
gracious Providence it is that calls so many young 
men from mercantile business to labor in the vineyard 
of our Lord. More than all, I wonder that I should be 
counted worthy to do any thing in the glorious work 
of salvation. How astonishing ! ^ How condescending 
and how kind !' How signal was my escape ! When 
every thing indicated that my situation was fixed for 
life, and that I should have to spend my days in buy- 
isag and selling, a kind Providence opened a way for 
me to enter upon my studies. You know what were 
my difficulties. I cannot, with the certainty I wish, 
say that I have been, and yet I dare not say that I 
have not been called of heaven — no, I dare not But, 
would I Mook back?' No, verily. I desire to be a 
minister of the Gospel above and before all earthly 
things. My mind' is bent on it, with the most earnest 
wish to spend and be spent in the Lord's service. How 
cUe could I be happy ? 

" The work of the holy ministry is, we hope and 
trust, before us. No doubt you have dwelt, as I hare, 
on the necessary work of preparation with fear and 
much trembling, yet with satisfaction and joy. But 
yet it can never be amiss for us to stir up each other's 
minds by way of remembrance. 

" That a minister of the Gospel should be a con- 



JAMES ORAINERD TAYLOR. 79 

verted man, is too plain, and dommonly believed, for 
me to insist on. He must be born from above — be ere- 
cted in Christ Jesus unto good works — have his name 
written in heaven. Thither, when going out and com- 
ing in, at home and abroad, he should direct his afiec- 
lions and desires, his whole walk and conversation: 
there should he lay up his treasures, and look to hea- 
ven as his eternal home. Nothing can be more unbe- 
coming in one who ministers in lioly things, than 
worldly-mindedness. May God, of his infinite mercy, 
make rta peculiarly humble ; and fit us to bear the ves- 
sels of the Lord, by imparting to us much of Enoch's 
spirit 

^* A minister of Jesus Christ ought to be thoroughly 
furnished for his work. It need not be splendid furni- 
ture, to attract admiration ; but solid, substantial, and 
fit for use. We must seek it in the store-house of grace. 
There is enough treasured up in Christ — may we re- 
ceive from his fullness ! Let us make our Bibles our 
text books. 

*' But the preacher must have a call from the great 
Head of the church, whose prerogative it is to raise 
up, qualify, and send forth laborers. Alas ! how mise- 
rable must that man be, who preaches when he is not 
sent. None of the truths which he utters — none of the 
warnings which he gives, but reverberate, ^Phyn- 
ctan, heal thyself J* O may you and I have our com- 
missions from Christ, to go into the world and preach 
his Grospel. May we receive an unction from the 
Holy One ; be set apart by the great High Priest of 
onr profession; be filled with the Holy Ghost, and 
with the fire of divine love— love supreme towards 
God| ardent towards our brethren, and universal 



BO MEMOIR OF 

towards perishing sinners. May the Spirit of the 
Lord rest on our hearts as a spirit of prayer, a spirit 
of conversation, a spirit of exhortation, a spirit of 
preaching. Then, setting up our banner in the name 
of the Lord, we shall destroy the works of the devil, 
and advance the interests of the Redeemer's kingdom. 

^^ A minister has great need to look well to all his 
motives. Does he work for filthy lucre's sake ? then 
he cannot prosper. Does he seek the honor that 
cometh from men, and not that which cometh from 
God only ? then leanness and barrenness will rest on 
his heart, life, preaching, and conversation. O may 
we enter the work to win souls to Christ, and have, 
as our great motive, the honor of our blessed Redeem- 
er. May we forget every thing about ourselves but 
our responsibility, the shortness of our lives, our final 
account, and our eternal state ; and may we always 
remember that many, many souls, in their eternal in- 
terests, depend on our faithfulness. May God make 
us faithful. 

"The greatness of this work should rest like a* 
heavy weight on our minds. O ! it is a work for eter- 
nity. The mischiefs of unfaithfulness here can never 
be repaired. To fail here, is to ^l for ever. If souls 
are lost through our neglect, they are murdered. May 
we, with our might, do all for God. O ! to be devoted 
servants of his, and workmen that need not be asham- 
ed. Then, when we come to give an account of our 
stewardship, we shall have joy and not grief. 

"Ministers, of all others, should be Jioly men; 
Christians every where, and no common ChrUtiaM; 
always setting an example for the flock to imitate. 



JAML8 MtAIMEKD TATLOH. 81 

O for perfect love, for complete sanctification for the 
office which awaits us I'' 

It will be seen by all who read the preceding lines, 
that James B. Taylor was by no means satisfied 
with his religious attainments. His daily and most 
earnest prayer was for higher and holier zeal, and 
more fervent love. He was fully persuaded that a 
Christian, in the use of the appointed means, might 
make continual progress in the divine life, and ad- 
vance far beyond his Christian stature. And this high 
attainment was the object of his continual desire. 

His repeated declarations show, that from the time 
he made a public profession of religion until the year 
1822, he longed for, and with much earnestness sought 
clearer manifestations of the divine favor, and greater 
conformity to the divine will. He was under the abid- 
ing feeling that, without higher attainments in holi- 
ness, he never could enter the ministry. During the 
spring vacation of 1822 he visited his parents, and, as 
it would seem, resolved to consecrate this time of re- 
laxation from study to the special object of seeking 
such an increase of religion as would relieve him 
from many doubts which harassed his mind. It was 
his privilege at this period to enjoy the society of 
some relatives, who, according to his account, were 
persons of very distinguished zeal and piety. He 
made much lise of their conversation and prayers, as 
well as of other means for the accomplishment of his 
object All his subsequent papers refer to the twenty 
third of Aprii^ in this year, as the most important era 
in his Christian life. He then gave himself up to 
Christ with a strength of purpose, a depth of feeling. 



82 MEMOIR OF 

and an unreservednesg of which he had never before 
been conscious. And he was made to partake of peace, 
of joy, of rapture, such as he had never eljcperienced. 
It was a great revival of religion in his heart. He 
knew something of that ''hope which maketh not 
ashamed;" of that ''perfect love which casteth out 
fear ;" of that joy which is unspeakable and full of 
glory. In a great number of letters written about 
this time, and years afterwards, he dwells on this sea- 
son and its blessings. The fullest account, however, 
of the whole case, is given in a letter, dated May, 
1823, which is here introduced, as the event recorded 
had a very strong bearing on his religious character 
and his whole future conduct. 

" LawrenceviUe, May 11, 1828. 

" This is the Lord^s day morning ; and it comes to 
me a welcome Sabbath. I awoke with the sensible 
presence of the Savior. How delightful the presence 
of Jesus ! It is he who makes us happy. Take him 
from the soul, and the sinner's hope of pardon is gone 
—take him from the Christian, and his peace is gone. 
If he is not with the believer in the swellings of Jor^ 
dan^ he has no rod and staff to support him — take him 
from heaven, and it is no place of bliss. Truly, Jeans 
Christ is all in all. 

" This day brings with it a privilege of no ordinary 
kind. It is that of witnessing the good profession of 
the church in this village, and of testifying to the 
world that I am on the Lord's side. Once more I am 
called to sit at the table of the Lord Jesus and cele- 
brate his dying love — ^may I do it in remembrance of 
him, penitently, humbly, with faith, with love, with 



JAMES BBAIMERD TAYLOR. 83 

peace, with joy ! I would remember him as the man 
who is Jehovah's fellow, (Zech. 13:7,) set up from 
everlasting — I would remember him as the promised 
seed, who should bruise the serpent's head — as the 
looked for Shiloh — as the Messiah foretold by the 
prophets. . I would remember him as already come*— 
the babe of Bethlehem— »the man of sorrows — the dcf* 
pised Nazarene — the friend of publicans and sinners. 
I would remember him as voluntarily humbling him* 
self, and although rich, for our sakes becoming poor, 
that we through his poverty might be made rich. I 
would remember him in the garden in his agony — 
before au earthly tribunal, though Judge of all the 
earth — on the cross, thirsting, bleeding, groaning, dy- 
ing, although he is the Lord of life and glory. I 
would remember him in the grave, in his resurrection, 
and in his various manifestations to his disciples. In 
a word, I would remember him as delivered for our of- 
fences, and raised again for our justification. 

*' What an honor, to have a name and a place among 
his people here below. But what is a name and a place, 
if we are destitute of the badge of true discipleship ? 
I mean the badge of love — supreme love to God, uni- 
verecU love to men. 

" But I would remember the forbearance and mercy 
of him whose name is lovr. I would never forget 
that fourteen years of my life were spent in folly and 
in sin, and yet I was not cut down as a cumberer of 
the Lord's vineyard ; that by the Holy Spirit I was 
convinced of sin and converted. I would remember 
Jesus as my best friend, in the midst of temptations, 
trials, and afflictions — as him who has not only per- 
mitted me to taste of his grace, but has filled me with 



S4 MEMOIR OF 

his ' perfect love,' which ' casteth out fear,' save the 
filial fear of offending my Father. I would indeed re* 
member him as my Lord, my portion, and my all. 

^ The Lord has often made himself known to me 
in the breaking of bread, particularly during the las 
year. My soul has, indeed, been richly fed at the 
communion table. 'J'he intercourse between my heart 
and heaven has been frequent and full. Jesus has 
been exceedingly precious. May I find the tabernacle 
of the Lord of hosts ' amiable ' this day because of his 
presence ; may the banner of Jesus over me be love ; 
and may his food be sweet to my taste ! Then shall I 
sit under the shadow of the Almighty ; my spiritual 
strength will be renewed ; and I shall be happy in the 
Lord my Savior. 

" I reperused with interest a letter received from 
you in 1819. Among other things contained in it, I 
found the following: — 4t is thought by some pious 
persons, that the course of study usually pursued in 
the present day, by candidates for the ministry, is cal- 
culated to abate that fervor in religion which is so 
desirable.' However this may have appeared to the 
observation of others, I have not discovered it to be 
the case in many instances. On the contrary, it is to 
be hoped that young men, in a course of preparation 
for the sacred office, grow in grace as they advance 
in knowledge. Surely, if they do not, they will have 
occasion to accuse themselves of base ingratitude and 
very culpable negligence. That some are thus wo- 
fully remiss cannot be doubted. In the words of your 
correspondent, as quoted, they become, in the course 
of their education, ' very different men, with a very 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 85 

different kind of piety ; and time must show whether 
It is better or worse.' 

'' But thanks; everlasting^ thanks to the great Head 
of the church, that he has not suffered my graces to 
languish and die. It is to his rich grace that I owe it 
all. He has done gveat and wonderful things for me 
since I commenced studying for the ministry. Shall 
I tell you 1 My tongue could not, much less can my 
pen express the loving kindness of the Lord to me, 
who am less than the least of all his mercies. ' Eter- 
nity is too short to utter all his praise.' But I may tell 
you some of the merciful dealings of the Lord to my 
soul. 

^^You will doubtless recollect how often I have 
complained to you of the littleness of my attainments 
in the divine life ; how much of sin was still remain- 
ing within me, notwithstanding my profession that I 
had crucified the world, the flesh and the devil. I 
have had keener sorrows for indwelling sin than I 
ever experienced before conversion. O the distress 
which I have felt on account of pride, envy, love of 
the world, and other evil passions, which have risen 
up and disturbed my peace, and separated between 
God and my soul. But the Lord heard my cries and 
groans, and was witness to my tears and my desires 
for holiness. I pleaded and wrestled with him ; and, 
praise to his name! after six long years I found 
what I had so long and so earnestly sought. It was 
on the 23d of April, 1822, when I was on a visit at 
Haddam, in Connecticut. Memorable day ! The time 
and place will never, no, never be forgotten. I recur 
to it at this moment with thankful remembrance. For 

S J. B. Taylor. 



86 MEMOIR or 

then, through the great love and power of our Lord, 
my feet were set in a large place. 

" I cannot give you the particulars better than by 
making an extract from my journal : 

' For some days 1 have been desirous to visit some 
friends, who are distinguished for 'fervor of piety, 
and remarkable for the happiness which they eigoy in 
religion. It was my hope, that by associating with 
them, and through the help of their prayers, I might 
find the Lord more graciously near to my soul. After 
my arrival, I took up a hymn book, where I found a 
hymn descriptive of my situation. The perusal of 
this increased my desire that the Lord would visit me, 
and fill me with the Holy Ghost — my cry to him was, 
" seal my soul for ever thine." I lifted up my heart in 
prayer that the blessing might descend. I felt that I 
needed something which I did not possess. There 
was a void within, which must be filled, or I could 
not be happy. My earnest desire then was, as it had 
been ever since I professed religion six years before, 
that all love of the world might be destroyed — all sel- 
fishness extirpated — pride banished — unbelief remov- 
ed — all idols dethroned — every thing hostile to holi-' 
ness, and opposed to the divine will, crucified ; that 
holiness to the Lord might be engraved on my heart, 
and evermore characterize my conversation. My 
mind was led to reflect on what would probably be 
my future situation. It recurred to me, I am to be 
hereafter a minister of the Gospel. But how shall I 
be able to preach in my present state of mind ? I can- 
not — never ; no, never shall I be able to do it with 
pleasure, without great overtumings in my soul. I 
felt that I needed that^ for which I was then, and for 



JAMBS BRAIN EHD TAYLOR. 87 

a long time had been, hungering and thirsting, I de- 
sired it, not for my benefit only, but for that of the 
church and the world. At this very juncture I was 
most delightfully conscious of giving up all to €k)d. 
I was enabled in my heart to say, Here, Lord, take 
me, take my whole soul, and seal me thine — thine 
now, and thine for ever. ^' If thou wilt, thou canst 
make me clean." There then ensued such emotions 
as I never before experienced — all was calm and tran- 
quil, silent, solemn — and a heaven of love pervaded 
my whole soul. I had a witness of God's love to me, 
and of mine to him. Shortly after, I was dissolved in 
tears of love and gratitude to our blessed Lord. The 
uame of Jesus was precious to me. '^ 'Twas music in 
my ear." He came as king, and took full possession 
of my heart ; and I was enabled to say, ^^ I am crucified 
with Christ : nevertheless I live ; yet not I, but Christ 
liveth in me." — Let him, as King of kings and Lord 
of lords, reign in me, reign without a rival for ever.' 
"But this is not all — since that blessed season I have 
enjoyed times of refreshment, in which I have gained 
nearer access to Qod, I have enjoyed his presence from 
day to day. Not one I believe has passed, in which I 
have not had the witness in myself that I am born from 
above. O the peace which I have had, and joy in the 
Holy Ghost ! It has flowed as a river. I have been hap- 
py in my Lord ; I have exulted in the God of my salva- 
tion. But I ascribe all to his grace. The Lord hath done 
great things for me, whereof I am glad, and for which 
I would praise his name. Not unto me, not unto me ! 
I am nothing — ^Jesus is all. To his name be the glory ! 
He is the author and finisher of faith. I know and 
am as iiilly assured of my acceptance with God as I 



88 MKMOIA OP 

can be of my existence — that is, if ' love, joy, peace, 
are evidences of reconciliation. I have a hope full cl 
glorious immortality. The perieot love of God cast- 
eth out all fear of death, of the grave, of judgment, of 
hell. Filial fear — fear of offending my heavenly Fa- 
ther and my brethren, possesses me. Surely I am a 
miracle of grace — a sinner saved by grace, free grace, 
sovereign grace, almighty grace. I feel th^t I love the 
Lord, because he first loved me. And, even now, I 
am favored with the gracious presence of EmmanueL 
How suitable and delightful is the name — God with 
ics ! — yes, 2iiL^ formed within us the hope of glory. 

" I find the Scriptures increasmgly delightful. I read 
no book with so much pleasure. It is indeed not a 
dead letter^ but spirit and life. Divinity is stamped 
on its pages ; and when carried home to the heart, its 
truths are life and power. 

^' In closet duties you doubtless find most pleasure 
Here I too find the heavenly manna. My soul has 
had Gospel measure in my evening's retirement. 'Tis 
here the Christian comes at the essence of religion, 
while he holds intimate communion with heaven, and 
partakes of joys sublime and substantial, such as the 
world knoweth not, the unrenewed never taste. But 
they are real ; they are pure ; they are foretastes of 
good things to come, earnests of future endless bliss. 

^^ The prospect before me is a pleasant one. I have 
no anxiety about the future. My only wish is to know 
what my heavenly Father will have me to do. I have, 
indeed, the ministry in view. I believe that the great 
Head of the church has called me to prepare for it. 
But whether he will count me worthy to be put into 
it, is not for me to decide. / would not determine. He 



JAMES BRAINBRD TAYLOR. 89 

may see fit to remove me hence before I shall have 
finished my course of study. Pleasing thought, if it be 
his will ! With some he has dealt thus, and so taken 
them from rendering service below, to render a perfect 
service above. But whether my life be protracted or 
shortened, my inquiry is, ' Lord, what wilt thou have 
me to do ?' ' Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth.' I 
am not my own keeper ; neither would I be at my own 
disposal. ^Godliness with contentment is great gain.' 
I trust that I have won this prize. Pray that I may 
keep and finish my course with joy. 

'^ Thus I have spoken of the Lord's dealings, and 
testified to his goodness. I have spoken to you with 
the familiarity and confidence of a friend. Do not 
think me an egotist 

" And now may I ask you, ' Is it well with thee ?' 
If I mistake not, you were once not a little harassed 
with fears, and perplexed with doubts. Have you 
gained the ascendancy over your adversary ? If not, 
be assured it is your privilege. ' For this purpose was 
Jesus manifested, that he might destroy the works of 
the devil.' And it is not his pleasure that we should 
always be babes, or even young men. He would have 
us arrive at the stature of perfect men m Christ Jesus. 
Alas ! how many seem to be ever learning, and never 
able to come to the knowledge of the truth. There 
are some who are always complaining of their dead- 
ness and want of spirituality. Do you know the rea- 
son ? Certainly it is not because they have religion, 
but because they have no more religion. The effect 
of true piety is to quicken and enliven the soul, to 
make its possessor spiritual and heavenly-mmded, 
' which if life and peace.' All, all should be on the 

8* 



90 MEMOIR OF 

alert ; ' up and doing ' for their Master's cause. Indeed, 
there is much land to be possessed ; much in onr own 
hearts ; much in our families ; much in our neighbor* 
hood ; much in the world at large. Who wiU le Chris- 
tians in deed and in truth ? who will be decidedly for 
the Lord — eminently holy and devoted servants of the 
Most High 1 There is much to do ; much for you and 
much for me to accomplish ; and our time is short. O 
for more of Enoch's spirit, that I may walk with God 
continually ; for more of the meekness and the ardof 
of our Savior. In a word, let us live for God, for hea- 
ven, for eternity. Then shall we ' rejoice evermore, 
pray without ceasing, and in every thing give thanks.' 
The world will sink into nothing before us — souls will 
be valued according to their worth — the divine gloiy 
will be our chief aim, and heaven our final home. 

'^ What shall I say more 1 May you and I seek to 
be uncommon Christians ; that is, eminently holy, Ho^ 
liness becometh the house of the Lord. It is this-whieli 
conforms us to his image, which fits us for communion 
with him here, and which only will fit us for heareA 
and for glory." 

This letter is given at full length, because it eon- 
tains the most clear and distinct account of the most 
remarkable revival of religion with which our de* 
parted brother was favored after his conversion. He 
was afterwards blessed with many similar seasons of 
refreshment ; and the letters which follow this event 
are uniformly in a higher strain of joyful feeling. In 
a communication addressed to his parents, dated July 
16, 1822, there is a display of filial and fraternal love 
mingled with Christian affection and joy, evincing a 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 9i 

high and sustained mental excitement. The father, 
mother, and all the grown np children, had become 
hopefully pious. In reference to this subject he ex- 
presses himself thus : 

" When I look at my father^s house my heart is filled 
with praise for what God has wrought. I now rejoice 
in the assurance that the family altar is frequented 
every day, and that there is offered up the sacrifice of 
broken spirits and contrite hearts. How comforting ! 
This looks like having a little heaven to go to hea- 
ven in. My dear parents, may you ever abide under 
the shadow of the Almighty, find the banner of Jesns 
oyer you to be love, and his food to be sweet to your 
taste I May your house be a Bethel to each of your 
souls," &c. 

After addressing most earnest and affectionate ex- 
hortations to each of his sisters, he adds concerning 
himself, '^ Of all others I have most reason to praise 
the Lord, because he has kept me in perfect peac6. 
Precious seasons, delightful hours I have enjoyed, and 
the remembrance of them is sweet. The Lord has 
manifested himself to me by his Spirit, and I now feel 
his presence ; my heart is stayed on the Lord ; Jesus 
is precious ; and I feel an increased determination to 
give up all for Christ, for he is worthy." 

In another letter he says, '^ Thanks to my heavenly 
Father, I can write to you in a new strain. My former 
communications have been full of complaint, yet I did 
not tell you of half the distress which I felt on ac- 
count of coldness in my Master's service, lest I should 



d2 MEMOIR OF 

distress you with the narrative. But now I feel that 1 
can never sufficiently praise the Lord for all that he 
has done for me. I will take the cup of salvation and 
call on his name. I would also call on my soul, and 
all that is within me, to bless him for the great deli- 
verance which he has wrought. Surely he has deli- 
vered me from the snare of the fowler — he has set my 
feet in a large place, and made me to rejoice in hu 
great salvation. Never have I enjoyed so much in re- 
ligion as since the 23d of last April. That was, and 
ever will be a memorable day to me. The kingdom of 
God, which is righteousness, and peace, and joy in the 
Holy Ghost, was then, if ever, set up within me. 
Praise the Lord for it ! He is cUL I am nothing. The 
glory of my salvation, from first to last, shall be as- 
cribed to the Triune Jehovah." 

To another he expresses himself thus t *' Since my 
arrival at Lawrencevilie I addressed to you a letter 
testifying the goodness of God to my soul. I have now 
to say, to the praise of his grace, that he has con- 
tinued his favors. At this time I enjoy an indescriba- 
ble peace, it passes knowledge, and yet it is a blessed 
reality. And it is now my earnest desire that all 
Christians may strive for a deeper work of grace in 
their hearts. 

^' I am ready to testify to the world that the Lord 
has blessed my soul beyond my highest expectations. 
People may call this blessing by what name they 
please, faith of assurance^ holiness, perfect love^ 
sanctification — it makes no difference with me whe« 
ther they give it a name, or no name, it continues a 
blessed reality, and, thanks to my heavenly Father, it 



JAMBS BRAINERD TAYLOR. 93 

is my privilege to enjoy it — it is yours also, and the 
privilege of all, to enjoy the same, and to go beyond 
any thing that I have ever yet experienced." 

A careful perusal of the letters written during the 
few months which followed the season so often ad- 
verted to, has convinced the compiler of this memoir 
that it was followed by a great and permanent increase 
of holiness and of religious enjoyment. Yet that there 
was in connection with this, an exposure to a serious 
error in the direction of his future life, is undeniable. 
His desire to be engaged in preaching immediately 
was so strong that he came near to the resolution that 
he would abandon his course of preparatory study, and, 
if possible, forthwith enter the pulpit ; and if he had 
not possessed the degree of genuine scriptural piety 
which he actually had attained, there is no doubt but 
that the fervor of his feelings would have carried him 
off in a very devious course. But when judicious 
friends presented to him the truth, and he carefully 
reflected on it, the path of duty appeared plain before 
him ; and the power of conscience, as soon as it was 
better informed, was sufficient to restrain the ardor of 
his wishes. And with a docility, and a frankness to 
acknowledge his mistake, which does honor to his me* 
mory, he returned to his studies ; and pursued them, as 
Health permitted, with exemplary steadiness and re- 
gularity. And always, after he had thoroughly ex- 
amined this subject, he felt, as will fully appear in the 
sequel, the obligation to improve, as far as possible, 
all his facilities, that he might with more efficiency 
preach the CJospel of Jesus Christ to his perishing f cl- 
low-msn. 



94 MEMOIR OF 

He had a powerful impression of the necessity of 
raising much higher than ordinary the standard of mi- 
nisterial piety. He thought that Christians universally 
might make, and must make, attainments in religiou 
far beyond those of ordinary professors ; and he was 
convinced that this was not likely to take place until 
preachers of the Gospel should become in a most emi- 
nent degree holy men. But at the same time his own 
experience and observation convinced him that young 
men, while laboring to kindle up the fire of zeal, and 
cultivating an ardent love for the work of the minis- 
try and for the souls of men, were liable to be drawn 
oif from their preparatory studies, and hurried into the 
sacred office before they were suitably prepared for it. 
He also knew that there are many Christians of indis< 
creet zeal, who very frequently suggest to students 
that they are wasting their time and chilling their 
ardor in the prosecution of dry and barren studies while 
souls are perishing. And although he never in the 
slightest degree intimated an expectation that a me- 
moir of him would be prepared, yet he frequently ex- 
pressed the wish that candidates for the ministry might 
learn rather from the experience of others than their 
own, the unspeakable importance of uniting an un- 
common degree of piety and zeal with very thonmgh 
preparation for their work. He was convinced that 
it was exceedingly important that ministers of the 
Gospel should have religion enough to make them 
always happy ; because that would commend Chris- 
tianity to others, would make them love the arduous 
labors of their office, and carry them pleasantly through 
all its trials. 

From the 23d of April, 1822, to the last day of his 



JAMBS BftAlMERD TAYLOR. 9ft 

life, he retained immovably the conviction, that by 
the diligent and faithful use of the means appointed 
by Jesus Christ, there might be attainments in piety, 
and all its fruits, love, joy, peace, hope, assurance, of 
which professors of religion ordinarily have no ade- 
quate idea. On this subject the reader will find him 
expressing himself in very strong terms, in letters 
hereafter to be inserted. And why may it not be so ? 
The economy of grace, so far from discouraging the 
use of means, does, when properly understood, afford 
the highest inducements to use them with, all dili- 
gence. The relation between cause and effect is as 
fully established in spiritual as in physical affairs. It 
is just as true in the one case as in the other, that the 
hand of the diligent maketh rich. And if one may not 
expect success in the use of measures presented for 
our growth in holiness, there can be no motive to em- 
ploy them, and no wisdom in their appointment. Now, 
who can set limits to a Christian's growth in grace, 
or to the increase of his spiritnal joy ? May not one, 
who every day sets himself, with all the activity of 
intense desire, to make advancement in the divine life, 
expect daily to get forward ? If a Christian will never 
let unrepented sin rest on his conscience — no, not for 
an hour ; if he never will omit any duty which for 
the time he can possibly perform ; if he will not rest 
satisfied a moment without the light of his Father's 
countenance shining on him : why may not all joy 
abound in him, and he always abound in the work of 
the Lord? In perusing christian biography, and in 
observing the lives of Christians, it is manifest that 
there is a veryjwide difference between the piety and 
the religious enjoyment of different persons. And it is 



96 BI£MOIB OP 

very clear that there is also as wide a difference be- 
tween their respective diligence and activity in xakng 
the means of religious improvement. 

This subject is urged in this manner, because the 
unhappy dispute which has risen on the subject of 
perfection, has been so managed as to induce in many 
the belief that doubt, despondency, and occasional 
gloom, are important evidences of Christian character. 
It is undoubtedly true, too, that the spiritual {uride of 
some who have pretended to be free from all sin, and 
to have attained the assurance of hope, has rendered 
more modest Christians unwilling to speak with con- 
fidence of their spiritual state. But it ought to be un- 
derstood that these two subjects are totally distinct. 
There will always be enough about the Christian, 
while he is in the body, to keep him humble, and to 
make him shrink from the claim of perfection. Yet it 
is certainly the doctrine of the Scriptures that believers 
ought to rise to the stature of full grown men in Christ 
Jesus ; that they may attain to such a state as to be 
able to say, " We know on whom we have believed ;*' 
that it is their privilege to rejoice evermore ; yea, even 
with a " joy unspeakable and full of glory." But if all 
this is not believed — if it is taken for granted that we 
must go sorrowful and in doubt through this world ; 
then no efforts will be made, no means will be em- 
ployed to rise to that happy and joyous state, of which 
the Bible speaks m frequent and strong terms. But 
nothing is more certain than the truth, that no bless- 
ing is obtained in religion, any more than in the affairs 
of this world, without effort. The economy of grace 
is such, that, by following the plain directions of the 
Bible, Christians will grow up into Christ their head 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 97 

in all things. Let students of theology then, and Chris- 
tians generally, helieve that they may hecome very 
eminently holy and happy, and that it is their dnty 
to be so. 

The determination of Mr. Taylor to return to that 
course of study which he had first marked out, did not 
in the least abate the fervor of his zeal, nor lessen his 
efforts to make that continual progress in piety which 
he felt that every one ought to make who has the sa- 
cred office in view. The following extracts from his 
letters will show that his religious enjoyments were 
continued, and indeed rendered more permanent and 
exalted. But it ought to be understood that he did not 
ftUow his piety to expend itself in mere feeling. His 
religion was not that of a retired contemplative mys- 
tic ; he was perfectly altTC to ail the charities of life ; 
and he omitted no opi^unity of doing good, which 
was either presented or could be made by him. In a 
word, the experience which he had acquired served 
the double purpose of making him conscientious in his 
endeavors to store his mind with useful and necessary 
knowledge, and to imbue his heart more and more en- 
tirely with the «pirit of the Gospel. At the same time 
he was exceedingly desirous that his Christian friends 
should partake of such religious, enjoyments as he 
himself was favored with. He thus writes to one who 
had, at an early period in life, made a public profes- 
sion of faith in Jesus Christ : 

" L , October 31, 1822. 

« — — * A hope of eternal life is indeed a treasure 

more precious than gold, yea, than much fine gold.' 

When I saw you last, you expressed doubts and fi^irs 

9 i. \s.Tti-sVot. 



98 MEMoia or 

respectiug yourself. You also wished to obtain a 
brighter evidence, a clearer witness of your accep- 
tance with God. The desire is laudable, and it may 
be gratified: for full assurance is attainctble. And 
who is happy without it 1 

" To attain what you desire, two things are ne- 
cessary. 

^^ 1. You must believe that it is attainable. 

" 2. You must seek it with your whole heart, 

" 1. You must believe that it is attainable. That it 
IS so, see for proof, Heb. 6 : 11. We there find a de- 
sire expressed that the Hebrews might possess it to 
the end. Paul enjoyed it, 2 Tim. 4 : &~8. The eighth 
verse plainly shows that the writer possessed full as' 
surance. ^ There is laid up for me a crown of righte- 
ousness, w:hich the Lord, the righteous Judge, will 
give me at that day.' See also Rom. 8 : 38, 39. ' For 
I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, 
nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor 
things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other 
creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of 
God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.' Many others, 
besides the apostle, to the lasting joy of their souls, 
have found this truth a blessed reality. 

" 2. Therefore you must look unto Jesus, the author 
and finisher of faith. Heb. 12 : 2. Mere belief that 
assurance is attainable, will not bring down the bless- 
mg to our possession. The prodigal son believed that 
there was bread enough and to spare in his father's 
house, while he was feeding on husks. But what 
would this conviction have availed had he not ccine 
to the resolution, ' I will arise and go unto my father?' 
and what his belief and resolution, had he not put 



JAMES BRAlNBto TAYLOR. fK) 

the resplye in execution ? Exertion is necessary. Can 
we attain any object of desire without using means 
adapted to the end in view ? 

*' Suffer, then, the word of exhortation. Give all di- 
ligence to secure that, which I trust the Holy Spirit 
has caused you to desire. Let your cry be continually 
to the Lord, that your soul may be filled with perfect 
peace. Be encouraged — for the promise is. ^ Ask, and 
you shall receive.' You have ' an advocate with the 
Father, Jesus Christ the righteous.' He has said, Mf 
ye shall ask any thing in my name, I will do it.' John. 
14 : 14, &c. Ask, O ask, that your joy may be fulL" 

The following, to the. same friend, is so full of the 
fervor of piety, that the reader will peruse it with deep 
interest. 

"I* , November 9, 1822. 

'^ The retrospect to you, as to me, is no doubt min- 
gled with emotions of regret and joy. For, once we 
were aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, and 
strangers to the covenants of promise. Nearly fifteen 
years of my life were spent at a distance from God, 
m pursuit of a phantom, a visionary object^ denom ma- 
ted by its votaries, pleasure. With what eagerness I 
followed that on which I have long since stamped va- 
nity and vexation of spirit, the companions of my 
youth could testify. But, alas ! two of them have gone, 
never to return — their bodies to the place appointed 
for all the living, their immortal spirits to the bar 
of their righteous Judge. One departed with bright 
evidence of a work of grace inwrought by the Holy 
Spirit — yes, even in the triumphs of faith, saying, just 



100 MSMOn OF 

before she left the iroM^ ' I am going soon, my Sa- 
vior is near.' The other manifested no token of a 
change of heart. Should these persons now give tes- 
timony respecting the hilarity of our youthfol days, 
how deep would be their tone, of reprobation 1 But 
soon the day of account will come, and all must an- 
swer for the deeds done in the body. 

'^ Besides the person first mentioned, only two others 
of my youthful companions, as I believe, have denied 
themselves, taken up the cross, and followed the Savior. 

* Why waf I made to hear thy voice, 

' And enter while there's room ; 
' While thousands make a wretched ehoiee, 

*.And rather starve than come.' 

^^ When I had reached the age of fifteen years and 
five months, I publicly professed the religion of Christ 
and joined myself to his people. This confession was 
witnessed on the 15th of Sept. 1816. The vows then 
made to be the Lord's, have often since been repeated 
in the closet and in the sanctuary. Eventful era in 
my life ! Never by me to be forgotten ! Its annual le- 
tum always brings grateful recollections. 

" On last Sabbath I was privileged to obey the dy- 
ing command of the Lord Jesus, ' Do this in remem- 
brance of me.' It was a most precious season. The 
intercourse between my soul and heaven was open 
and free. I was brought into the banqueting house of 
the Beloved ; and his banner over me was *love. Truly 
I had communion with the Father, and with his Son 
Jesus Christ, through the Holy Spirit. My brethren 
and sisters, both in the church militant and the church 
triumphant, were objects of my affection— yes, all 



JAMES BKAIMBRD TAYLOR. 101 

who were purchased hy the redemption that is in 
Christ Jesus. I also with all my heart desired the 
conversion of impenitent sinners. Indeed the Lord 
was present to bless me with gotfpe^9flea«ttre, pressed 
down, shaken together, and running over. Commu- 
nion seasons grow better and better. And so it ought 
to be. By and by I hope to drink new wine in the pa- 
radise above. 

> When shall I wake and find me there T 

glorioas honr ! O bleit abode ! 

1 shall be near, and like my God, 
And lleah and sin no- more eontrol 
The iaered pleasures of the soul.' 

< I said that the 15th of September, 1816, was, and 
ever will be an eventful era to me. But there is ano- 
ther day to which I shall ever recur with as much, if 
not more interest. It was the 23d of last April. On 
that day the Lord wrought a deeper work of grace in 
my soud than at any former period. Yes, blessed be 
hit holy name for ever ! he condescended to bestow a 
favor, for which I had been longing for years — the 
witness of which I have enjoyed daily ever since. I 
cannot tell you what I have enjoyed from his fullness ; 
but let it sufiice to say that my peace has flowed like 
a river; and I can testify that I have experienced 
more of the presence of the Lord than during my 
whole previous existence. The earnest of the pur- 
chased possession has been given to me, and I have 
rejoiced in the hope of the glory of God, and of the 
rest which remaineth for his people. 

'^ I wish you to understand that I advert to this sub- 

9* 



103 MBMOiB or 

ject, and dwell on it, becaase I wish to show forth the 
dirine goodness as manifested to so unworthy a sin* 
ner as I am ; and to testify the loving-kindness of the 
Lord. 

" It may encourage my friend, who, I trust, has 
tasted that the Lord is gracious. Let me again urge 
you to seek until you obtain that bright evidence of 
your acceptance which you desire. Never give orer 
*he effort. The adversary is ever near to cheat you 
out of the promised blessing. But the word of truth 
assures us, that if we resist him, he will flee from us ; 
and that if we draw nigh to God, he will draw nigh 
to us. ' Blessed are they that do hunger and thirst 
after righteousness, for they shall be filled.' ' If ye, 
being evil, know how to give good gifts to your chil- 
dren, kow much more shall your heavenly Father give 
the Holy Spirit to them that ask him.' Such are the 
promises which encourage us. If then you seek and 
find not, search narrowly into your heart, and see if 
there is any thing cherished there inconsistent with 
your desires to obtain this blessing; any thing opposed 
to holiness, such as love of the world, pride, selfish- 
ness, d^. Qod does not come and dwell in the heart 
where he finds rivals. Before you venture to approach 
the holy presence of the Lord and offer sacrifice to 
him, examine yourself carefully, and put far away 
every thing that can hinder the blessing. If you fed 
how important it is that believers should be sanctified 
wholly, in soul, body and spirit, you will excuse the 
plainness of my speech. Allow me to propose a ques- 
tion, which has occurred to my mind since I wrote the 
preceding paragraph. Why may not you be an un- 
common Christian 7 Do you see any thing to prevent 



JAMES BRAIMEB^ TAYLOR. ' 108 

It ? Is not the Lord on yonr side 1 Have you not tlie 
God of Jacob for your refuge ? Have you not an Ad- 
vocate with the Father, who is also a sympathising 
friend, having been in all points tempted as his dis- 
ciples, yet without sin ? O then strive for it. Keep 
* the world, the flesh, and the devil ' continually under 
your feet, and heaven continually in view ; that you 
may have heaven within you. Is it not for this that 
you have been brought into the church at a very early 
period in life ? Is it not your duty to be an uncommon^ 
that is, a very humble, self-denying, cross-bearing, (in 
a word,) bible christian 1 And it is no less your pri- 
vilege than your duty. 

^' Pray for me, that I may have more faith, humility, 
patience, yea, every thing to make me Christ-like. 

" With beat regards, &c. J. B. T." 

To the same. 

"* November 23, 1822. 
*• The«aoul may be in heaviness through manifold 
temptations, 1 Peter, 1 : 6. Then, and in all times of 
difficulty, there is an opportunity for trusting in the 
Lord, and seeking him until he come and accomplish 
a complete deliverance. To be tempted is not a sin — 
but to yield to temptation. To endure it is a blessing, 
James, 1 : 13. But if temptation takes effect, it will 
bring forth death, ver. 15. Thanks to heaven's high 
King, ' the Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out 
of temptations,' 2 Peter, 2 : 9. Then lee us commit our 
cause into the hands of 'the Author and Finisher of 
our faith,' who ' worketh in us both to will and to do 
of bis good pleasure.' And after all our exertions for 



104 BIEMOIB OP 

deepening the work of grace in our souls, may we he 
passive in his hands. Although our whole life should 
be one continued scene of doubt and fear, hearen will 
make amends for all. But ask and look for overeamr 
ing gr€u:e here — now. There is enough and to spare. 
Let me request that your prayers be offered up on my 
behalf-— that the Lord would make me a faithful ser- 
vant in his vineyard, should he call me there to labor; 
and that during my work of preparation I may be 
useful" 

The following letter to his parents will show that 
he had been brought to view the subject of prepara- 
tion for the ministry in a proper point of light : 

" December 1, 1822. 
•* My beloved Father and Mother, 

" I have been reading to-day and last evening, Mr. 
Parsons' Journal during his visit to Palestine. I found 
it delightful to follow him as he recorded his visits to va- 
rious places in and about the holy city Jerusalem. He 
visited the holy sepulchre, Mount Calvarv, Mount Oli- 
vet, the Pool of Siloam, Mount Zion, Bethany, Jericho, 
the Dead Sea, where Sodom and Gomorrah once stood, 
and Bethlehem. On his way from Jerusalem to Beth- 
lehem, from an eminence, he had, at the same mo- 
ment, a distinct view of three of the most important 
places in the world — Bethlehem, where Jesus Christ 
was born; Calvary, where he was crucified; and 
Mount Olivet, from whence he ascended on high. 
The associations connected with such a situation are 
at once truly sublime and pleasingly melancholy. But 
Mr. Parsons is dead. He rested from his labors as a 



JAMES BRAIN ERD TAYLOR. 105 

missionary on the 9th of last February, at Alexandria, 
in Egypt. He had left father and mother, and putting 
his life in his hand, had embarked in the missionary 
cause. The tidings of his death must have been truly 
afflictive to his parents. Yet how honored are they 
in having a child to live and die for the Lord ! 

" While reading this journal, the question occurred, 
who knows but that thai region is marked out as my 
laboring place. But I give myself no trouble about this 
thing. The Lord knows, and he will let me know, 
when the time comes for my going forth into the 
vineyard. 

" I am indeed a wonder to myself, when I think 
what I once was, and contrast my former with my 
present situation and prospects. ' Not unto me — not 
unto me,' but to my gracious Grod be all the glory. 
To him I owe life, health and comfort. 

" I am as highly favored as I have been. The Lord 
has taken care of me. At times, when my foot has 
well nigh slipped, he has been near to uphold me, so 
that I am under infinite obligations to love and serve 
him, and ever to speak well of his name. 

'' I am more contented with my situation and pros- 
pects, and more settled in mind, than I was at one 
period. I see more clearly than ever that I have a great 
work before me, and one that needs great prepara- 
tion. Since I commenced study, you know that I 
have been much tried on account of the length of my 
course. I was anxious to ^et out. But I am now 
thankful to Grod that he did not let me go ; for had I 
gone, what should I have done ? At one time I felt it 
to be my duty to go forth as a preacher immediately 
another, to curtail my allotted course — I now 



106 MEMon or 

look forward to a complete course, as I did at first. I 
expect to go to college next fall^ and remain three 
years ; thence to the theological seminary, and stu- 
dy three years longer. I have learned some lessons 
from experience, which, probably, I could have learn- 
ed in no other way. These lessons, I have good hope, 
will benefit me through life. My studies are agreea- 
ble — my health is good. The Lord makes my dwell- 
ing a Bethel to my soul — I have enjoyed in secret 
most refreshing seasons. But I want more faith, more 
humility, more love, more meekness, more of the spirit 
of my Master : in a word, I want to be more like 
Christ, in all my thoughts, words, and actions. 

" By and by, I may become a preacher of the Qospel 
— ^but I may not. Life hangs on a brittle thread. AH 
are alike exposed to the shafts of death. Only a short 
time since, a student at the theological seminary in 
Princeton, who had finished his collegiate studies, and 
just entered on his theological course, sickened and 
died. A young man, also in New Brunswick, study- 
ing for the ministry, died but a little while ago. And 
Dr. Mason's son at Carlisle, a candidate for the mi- 
nistry, died about the same time. These three young 
men prosecuted their studies in the same class in col- 
lege, and all died in one month. How mysterious ! 
But it is the Lord, and he doeth what seemeth him good. 

" These events show us that piety, talents, and pros- 
pects of usefulness in the world, are no barriers against 
death. May those that are looking forward to the mi- 
nistry consider well that they are mortal ! If the Lord 
designs me for the great work of preaching the Gk>8pel, 
he will spare my life. But should he take me hence 
during my preparatory studies, it will be, I tmsf, to 



JAM£S BRAINERD TAYLOR. l(ff f 

render to him a perfect service in heaven, instead of 
an imperfect one here on earth. Let none therefore 
tnourn my death, should the Lord take me to himself. 

" There is nothing worth living for in this world 
but to glorify Grod. And rather than not do this in my 
subseque^it life, I should prefer to go away to that house 
not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. There, 
my dear parents, I expect to meet you — there I expec- 
to meet mv dear brothers and sisters — O ! what thanks 
belong to our blessed Redeemer, that he has called us 
with a holv calling. May we, who have given our- 
selves to Christ, be faithful unto death, and enter into 
the haven ot eternal rest. And not we only, but the 
dear little ones of the family. May God, for. Christ's 
sake, hear our prayers for them — may they all be 
brought into the fold of Christ — not one left out — that 
ours may be a holy, happy, devoted family. 

^' Dec. 27. You will observe that this letter was be- 
gun some time ago. By the time it reaches you, prey- 
bably you will have entered on a new year. May it 
prove happy to you in its commencement, in its con* 
tinqance, and in its end. 

"As ever, I would subscribe myself, 

" Your affectionate son, 

" James B. Taylor." 

This interesting young man was much accustomed 
CO observe particular seasons and periods of time. On 
the Jirst day qf the year, 1823, he wrote a letter to 
his family, which no doubt will long be preserved by 
them as a precious memorial of his piety and affection. 
He first takes a view of the dispensations of Provi- 
dence and grace towards the family during the year. 



106 MEMOIH 6T 

And it appears that during that period the father of 
the family and three of the children had experienced 
that change of heart, without which, according to the 
testimony of Christ, none can enter the kingdom of 
heaven. In producing these important changes, the in- 
strumentality of the son was greatly blessed. His filial 
reverence and delicacy, combined with christian fide- 
lity, have already been noticed. The same spirit is 
manifested in this letter, but on this occasion it is min* 
gled with much holy joy. He speaks of 1822 as a year 
of jubilee to the whole family, and describes in rap- 
ture the domestic happiness enjoyed, when so many 
had become true Christians, and were mingling with 
the charities of natural relationship, the hopes and 
joys of religion. 

" Having addressed you all individually, 1 now come 
to testify to the goodness and loving-kindness of the 
Lord which have followed me. 

" Surely of all others I have most reason to speak 
well of his name, which is above every name ; for in 
the midst of deserved wrath he hath remembered unde- 
served mercy. 

" The year 1822 has, of a truth, been a year of ju- 
bilee to my soul. During that period God has done 
more for me than I ever expected in this world. On 
the 23d of April he accomplished a work which I had 
longed for during six years. I feel the^ blessed effects 
of that visitation until this day. And until my dying 
dav I shall have reason to recall that hour wiih thank- 
ful remembrance. No year before the one just past 
has afforded such solid peace in believing. I have had 

**ir access to the throne of grace. Jesus has been pre- 



4AM£a BRAINIIrD TAYLOR. 1()9 

eious. My endearors to promote the cause of Christ, 
however short I may have come, were pat forth with 
increased pleasure. Preaching has come to my heart 
with greater power. Communion seasons have been 
delightful — a little heaven on earth — foretastes of the 
joys to come. Since that 23d of April I have enjoyed 
a sweet and lasting evidence of my acceptance with 
God, so that I have looked on the grave with compo- 
sure, and on death as a messenger to open that door, 
through which I should have an abundant entrance 
into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Savior 
Jesus Christ-^and on heaven as my eternal home, f 
have had delightful seasons in praying for ihe family, 
collectively and individually — for Zion and her pros- 
perity, especially for the Jews-^for friends, and espe- 
cially for one who does not profess to love the Lord — 
and for enemies. Think me not boastful when I say 
that I do love my enemies, and earnestly pray for their 
salvation. The Lord has commanded us to do this ', 
ind he has helped me to obey the command. To him 
be all the praise ! ' O give thanks unto the Lord, for 
he is good ; for his mercy endureth for ever. Let the 
redeemed of the Lord say so, whom he hath redeemed 
from the hand of the enemy. O God, my heart is fixed. 
I will sing and give thanks.' 

" The retrospect of the year shows that we have 
been most highly favored. The windows of heaven 
have been opened, and have dropped — nay, rather 
have poured down blessings upon me. We have drunk 
of the wells of salvation, and have tasted that the 
Lord is gracious. Surely his eyes have been over us 
for good from the beginning to the close of the year. 
He has conducted us safely through dangers seen and 

IQ J. B. Tajlor. 



no MEMOUt OF 

unseen : he has been ' on our right hand and on our 
left, 80 that we have not been moved.' Bless the 
Lord, O our souls, and all that is within us bless hit 
]\oly name. Bless the Lord, O our souls, and forget 
not all his benefits ; who forgiveth all our iniquities, 
who healeth all our diseases, who redeemeth our lives 
from deslruction, and crowneth us with loving-kind- 
ness and tender mercies. May he at length give us 
the crown of glory, the heavenly diadem, purchased 
with the labors, the tears, the blood, the death of the 
Son of God. 

" For all our short-comings during the past year may 
we be suitably humbled ; and learn wisdom from the 
consequences of our remissness. For all the good ob- 
tained for ourselves, or done to others, may we ascribe 
glory to the Lord. For all the evil, may we take shame 
to ourselves. 

" Finally, what shall we render to the Lord for all 
his benefits 1 A new year has begun its course. It 
moves with as much rapidity as marked the flight of 
the old. It will soon be gone ! but we may not live to 
see its close. How actively, then, should we be en- 
gaged — each one in his place fulfilling his duty! 
May every revolving day forcibly remind us that our 
last day is coming ! and may we double our diligence 
in preparing to meet our Judge, that we may render 
our accounts with joy, and not with grief 

"Having been enabled to raise our *Ebenezer,' 
saying, * Hitherto hath the Lord helped us,' let us in- 
scribe upon our hearts, * Jehovah-Jireh,' the Lord will 
provide. Abundant is the provision in heaven's store- 
house for all the needy. Let us seek and expect great 
blessings from on high. 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. Ill 

" May we this year do more than ever for our own 
growth in grace and for the welfare of Zion; and as 
we travel on our way heavenward, may we hear one 
another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ ; in- 
terceding, each for all, that we may walk as pilgrims 
and strangers who expect soon to become fellow-citi- 
zens of the saints in glory." 

[Thus far had this interesting compilation proceed- 
ed under the hand of the lamented John Holt Rice, 
when it pleased the Lord to say to him, in the favor- 
ite phrase of this heavenly-minded young man, " Come 
up higher." And now upon another, incompetent in- 
deed, but willing friend, has the task devolved to 
finish what had been so happily begun.] 

The piety, the zeal, the humility, the heavenly- 
mindedness, the ardent desire to be useful in the vine- 
yard of his Lord, which characterized the late James 
B. Taylor, have been already exhibited with such a 
force of evidence, that every reader must see, what 
every acquaintance felt, that he had become, as he 
proposed to himself, and often pressed upon others to 
become, an uncommon Christian, 

His faith seemed never to waver — his christian af- 
fections never to grow languid — his communion with 
€rod, through the mediation of the Son and by the 
aid of the Holy Ghost, was seldom interrupted ; and 
when a cloud mtervened, and the divme communica- 
tions were suspended, he rested not till the cause 
was ascertained, and the light of his heavenly Fa- 
ther's countenance again let down upoTi YA^ ^o\i\. ^^x 
did he ever lose sight of the great oV^eet «.^X«t \]\iv:' 



112 MEMOIR OF 

his heart panted, and in preparation for which he was 
diligently engaged. Never, perhaps, did any one 
more intensely desire to preach the Gospel than did 
James B. Taylor. 

Of the truth of these statements ample proof wi I 
be found in the following extracts from his correspon- 
dence during this year, and in the fragments of a dia- 
ry found among his papers, commencing with the first 
of May, 1823. 

To a venerable minister of the Gospel, for whom 
he cherished the warmest aflTection, he wrote as fol- 
lows: 

" LawrenceviUe^ Jan, 27, 1823. 
''RoTerend and beloved Sir, 

"When I say that I have not had the privilege 
of receiving a communication from my worthy and 
esteemed father in the Gospel, as I anticipated, he 
will not consider me as complaining of remiss- 
ness ; far be it from me ; for my letters are not, 
neither am I worthy of this notice. Yet the good 
counsel, the friendly admonitions of one so expe- 
rienced, might have been incalculably useful to one 
80 inexperienced as myself, who, if the Lord of 
the vineyard permit, will follow on in a course pro- 
bably not unlike your own. Last evening, as I was 
reading the word of God, the following passage came 
in course : < And the Lord said unto Moses, get thee 
up into this mount Abarim, and see the land which I 
have given to the children of Israel. And when 
thou hast seen it, thou also shalt be gathered to thy 
people, as Aaron thy brother was gathered.' In medi- 
tation, my mind dwelt upon the situation of Moses 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 113 

and his blessed prospect. O ! how much better to en- 
ter the heavenly Canaan than to enjoy an earthly one ! 
I endeavored to place myself upon the mount and 
take a view of the goodly land. As I mused the fire 
burned, until I could say, Welcome death, that sets 
the captive soul at liberty I I think I had some of that 
longing to depart and be with Christ of which the 
apostle speaks, and could have finished my course 
with joy ; yet, frorii my very soul I could say, * Not 
my will, O Lord, but thine be done.' I saw I had as 
y«t suffered but little for Christ, and was enabled to 
say, Lord, I will follow thee through toil, through 
persecution, to prison, and to death. Wait, wait pa* 
tiently, O my soul, till thy change come." 

In the same letter Mr. Taylor wrote to the young 
members of the family as follows : 

'^ The year that has just closed has been a memora- 
ble one to you ; upon it you can inscribe Jubilee, for 
thus it has proved to your souls. What mercy has 
the Lord shown you! Thanks to his rich, free, sove- 
reign, almighty grace, that he has rescued .you from 
going down to the pit. How has it been with you 
since you found the Savior precious to your souls ? 
Has he been increasingly so? Have you found your 
closet devotions growing more delightful 1 the Bible 
more sweet 7 and the duties of religion more plea- 
sant? What fellowship have you then enjoyed with 
the Father, and with his Son Jesus Christ ! What a 
blessed religion ! While it enjoins constancy in its 
duties, which to the pious is a privilege, it affords 
peace — peace with Grod — peace with the world — peace 
of conscience. The love of Qod, kmdled up in thf 

10* 



114 MEMOU OP 

soul by the Holy Ghost, is the principle fcam which 
emanates love to Christians — love to sinners — love to 
all God's creatures. But, having been bom of God, 
we must remember that we are not to remain babes in 
Christ. A necessity is laid upon us to leave the first 
principles and go on to perfection. Therefore mar 
we press forward, and give all diligence to make our 
calling and election sure. To this end we must never 
be afraid to know the worst of ourselves. Let us ever 
pray, ' Search me, O God, and know my heart ; try 
me, and know my thoughts, and see if there be any 
wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting.' 
May you be uncommon Christians ; that is, eminently 
pious and holy, and, like Mary, ever at the feet and 
around the cross of Jesus, the precious Lamb of, 
God. There is much to be done. The world is to be 
converted to God ; and why may there not be grea$ 
and lasting good done through your instrumentality 1 
Then go on. The world may frown — Satan may rage 
— but go on ; live for God. Greater is he that is for 
you, than all that can be against you and the chris- 
tian cause. May I die in the field of battle. May the 
Lord make me a true son of Levi, holy ; and, like 
David and Sampson, fearless in his service." 

To this letter he received an affectionate reply, con- 
taining much salutary counsel, and particularly com- 
mending his decision to persevere in his studies pre- 
paratory to the ministry. As the epistle of his aged 
friend closes with the words, '* The elder in Christ 
Jesus salutes you," Mr. Taylor, on the 17th February, 
responded as follows : 

^ James, emphaticaUy the less^ a servant of God and 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 115 

of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the elder, the well belovedi 
whom I most sincerely love in the truth ; mercy unto 
you and yours, and peace and love be multiplied from 
God the Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ, the 
dear Son of the Father, and our precious Redeemer. 

" Your letter, fraught with most tender expressions 
of affection for one who truly feels himself less than 
the least of all saints, and so richly instructive, came 
to hand on the 10th instant ; for which I have thanked, 
and do still thank the Lord, and my reverend father. 

" Be assured, it gives me pleasure to devote a few 
passing moments to a correspondent I so highly prize 
as an experienced Christian, as a cordial friend, and 
as a master in Israel. 

" I proceed to notice in order some of the particulars 
in your letter. For the affectionate regard which has 
led to the recital of my name in your domestic and so- 
cial circle, I am to be grateful to Him who causes his 
children to find favor in the sight of men. Oftentimes 
does it happen that even Christians hesitate to wel- 
come the ransomed of the Lord with the cordiality 
which they should manifest, and particularly if they 
should happen to bear a different name, 

"You readily join with me in saying, these things 
ought not so to be. And the loss which some have 
sustained through prejudice, ignorance and bigotry, is 
incalculable. ' Forget not to entertain strangers, for 
thereby some have entertained angels unawares.' 
Truly the badge of brotherly love should characterize 
all who bear the christian name. 

" The eulogy you wrote upon my letter, the adver 
sary would gladly have used to excite a spirit of self- 
exaltation, which would only have procured my down 



116 MEMOIR OF 

fall ; but I had on the christian armor ; and the praise 
belongs to the Captain of my salvation, who helped 
me so to wield the sword of the Spirit as to turn the vic- 
tory on the side of humility. Yes, instead of a means 
of producing self-complacency, it was the occasion of 
self-abasement, and of going out of myself and trust- 
ing in the Lord as my wisdom, m^ light, my strength. 
Thus I experienced the blessedness of enduring temp- 
tation ; and while the enemy was defeated, I was made 
to triumph. It is sufficient that the servant be as his 
Lord. We need not expect freedom from temptation 
till the earthly house of our tabernacle be dissolved. 
Then may we receive the crown of life, which the 
Lord hath promised to them that love him. 

" When you portrayed the feelings of a pious youth, 
you described to an iota my state when I entered upon 
my present course, and while prosecuting it till last 
fall. What a miserable week I spent after my arrival 
at Lawrenceville the first time ! My Latin Grammar 
— but you have had, doubtless, somewhat of the same 
experience. I had come from an active life — I was 
enclosed within the walls of the academy with chil- 
dren — a long academical, collegiate, and theological 
course was before me — I was growing old, &c. This 
combination of disagreeables, together with my desire 
to be out, conspired to render me disconsolate ; yet I 
was thankful for the prospect. I would dwell longer 
upon this particular, but suffice it to say, I am now 
contented to remain the appointed time — and I doubt 
not I shall ever have reason to admire the train of 
providences which have been to me as 'a pillar of 
cloud by day, and a pillar of £re by night.' My foot 
had well nigh slipped, but the Lord has held me up 
nnH established my goings. 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 117 

"Your suggestions are well worthy o^ my freqUenl 
consideration. THie object I have endeavored to keep 
in view, viz. the glory of God as it is connected with 
the salvation of sinners. To this end I think I ha^re 
coveted earnestly the best gifts, which I conceive to 
be the spirit of prayer, the spirit of exhortation, and 
the spirit of prophecy, that is, the gifts of preaching. 
I regard the Bible, the word of God, as the weapon 
with which the minister is to do execution in the field 
of the enemy. Therefore it should be not only in his 
study and his pocket, but it should dwell ricJUy in his 
memory and in his heart. Alas ! is it not lamentable 
that a young divine should come out and attempt to 
instruct the church with but little furniture from the 
Bible 7 Classical and scientific knowledge are invalu- 
able auxiliaries, but to be destitute of Bible truth, a 
minister must be greatly confounded when he comes 
in contact even with those who are esteemed illiter^ 
ate, but who have made the word of God their study 
and their guide. I lament that I am so much behind- 
hand in sacred literature. I long to be mighty in the 
Scriptures, to have them deeply impressed upon my 
heart — and that believing, I may therefore speak — and 
so bring from the treasury of the Gospel things new 
and old. Paul says to his son Timothy, 'preach the 
word? It is the word which must and will do execu- 
tion ; for it is the power of God, and the wisdom of 
God, to the sanation of the soul. 

" Then I should, as you suggest, have a system oi 
thinking u\)on theology. Doubtless you have v/itness- 
ed many cases where candidates for the holy ministry 
have neglected this important point. Probably they 
thought it a matter to be attended to in course. This 



118 MEMOIR OF 

has been oo much the case with myself; I have read 
more than I have thought: I have meditated plans, but 
when I look back and see how little proficiency I have 
made, I am ashamed ; yet I do not think I have been 
idle. My time has been occupied. Is there not a de- 
fect in my system ? Do you ask what it is ? Upon my 
first arrival here, I saw the absolute necessity of hav- 
ing for my motto, * a place for every thing, and every 
thing in its place.' As to importance, I considered the 
objects demanding my attention in the following or- 
der : hours of devotion, time for acting, hours of study. 
For sleep I appropriate about seven hours ; at present, 
and for the winter past, I have devoted eight hours to 
my academical studies, which are sufficient for the re- 
citations of the class ; will you please propose to me the 
best distribution of the remaining nine hours'? For a 
system of theological thought, I have had in view, be- 
sides reading the Scriptures, our catechism with the 
proofs. Please express your mind fully on this point, 
for I consider it of great importance ; and to facilitate 
my course, I desire to come at every thing in the short- 
est and most practicable way. Many, for want of ju- 
dicious friends to advise, take a circuitous route, and 
peradventure, when they commence their theological 
course regularly, will have many things to unlearn, 

" More and more do I feel the necessity of a fit and 
adequate preparation for the holy office — much, muchi 
very much yet remains to be done — many a vacuum 
needs to be filled. I would not daub with untemper- 
ed mortar, but be thoroughly furnished — a workman 
that needs not be ashamed, rightly dividing the whole 
word and work of truth — a polished shaft in the quiver 
of the Almighty. But what am H A worm, a crea- 



JAHE3 BRAINERD TAYLOR. 119 

ture of a day. May I not exclaim, who is sufficient 
for these things ? But I do not despond. The Lord 
reigns, let the earth rejoice; let our souls be glad 
thereof. I may, or I may not, live to enter the vine- 
yard; about this I am not solicitous. My days are 
numbered ; my destiny is fixed ; I would not alter it. 
Infinite wisdom is the directory I choose. I said I am 
not solicitous. I would ever live, leaving the morrow 
to take thought for itself. The Lord of the vineyard 
knows the very laborers he designs for it. If I be one, 
here am I, Lord, send me ; if not — Amen. 'Any thing 
or nothing, that God may be glorified and sinners sa- 
ved. Bless the Lord, O our souls. 

" I rejoice that you enjoy such nearness of access to 
the throne of grace. Is it not the privilege of the Chris- 
tian to rejoice evermore, and to pray without ceasing, 
and in all things to give thanks ? Surely ; for it is the 
will of God in Christ Jesus concerning him. And the 
more childlike simplicity and godly sincerity, the more 
free will be the intercourse between heaven and our 
souls. 

" My feelings of interest have been drawn out in an 

unusual degree towards the people in S . I feel as 

if it was the will of the Lord that I should make them 
a visit. Why is this ? Let the Lord send by whom h« 
will send — my prayer is, that he would grant them a 
great outpouring of the Holy Spirit, and that multi- 
tudes may be gathered into the fold of Christ. Help 
me to commit my cause to God, in whom I would 
* commence, continue, and end every work.' Make re- 
quest, if by any means, I may have a prosperous jour- 
ney, by the will of God, to come unto you ; for I long 
to see you, that some spiritual blessing may be impart- 



180 MEMOIR qt 

ed to us, to the end that we may be more and mora 
established, that is, that we may be comforted together 
by the mutual faith both of you and me. 

" Since I wrote you last, I have enjoyed precious 
seasons in the closet ; have had the privilege of sitting 
at the communion table, and of a truth have fed on 
Christ by faith. It was a refreshing, blessed time ! 
When shall we eat bread and drink new wine in the 
upper kingdom ! I could say more, but will not with 
ink and pen write unto thee ; but I trust I shall shortly 
see thee fa^e to face. Peace be to thee. Farewell. The 
younger in Christ Jesus salutes the elder. 

" James B. Taylor." 

To other members of the family he wrote in the 
same interesting letter : — " This is our working season, 
and what we would do for God, must indeed be done 
quickly. For our encouragement we have his assu- 
rance. My grace is sufficient for thee. Then, however 
arduous our duties, however responsible our station^ if 
we be faithful, God will be a present help in every 
time of need. My heart's desire and prayer to God is, 
that you may grow in grace, and in the knowledge of 
our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. In reading the 
Scriptures on the subject of prayer, I was ready to re* 
proach myself for so much remissness in this sacred 
duty. Alas ! how many hours have been lost in sleep, 
which should have been devoted to closet duties. How 
much has my soul lost by this sinful gratification of 
the flesh ! Jesus arose long before day and sent his 
holy aspirations to his native heaven ! How often did 
he retire to solitary places to raise his voice in suppli- 
cation ! His life was a life of prayer. He delighted in 



JAMES BRAIMERD tATLOB. 121 

holding communion with his Father. See him in the 
garden and on the cross ! If he prayed so constantly, 
how much more jdo we need to be engaged in this duty ! 
But Jesus still pleads, and must prevail. Let us then 
commit our cause to him, as our advocate and inter- 
cessor.'* 

It is delightful to observe how this dear disciple of 
our Lord Jesus Christ made him the aZp/ta and oviega, 
the beginning and the ending of all that he did. 
Through all his voluminous correspondence a sweet 
savor of Christ is to be found in every page— almost 
in every line. His love to relatives and friends, and to 
all his fellow-creatures, appears to have^been sanctified, 
and elevated, and softened, and warmed by holy love 
to the blessed Redeemer. Christ was indeed his all. 
And it is to his constant and afiectionatc looking to 
Christ — his entire surrender of himself to Christ — his 
exclusive dependence upon Christ with child-like sim 
plicity — we are to ascribe the great peace which con- 
stantly pervaded his bosom, and the holy joys which 
filled his heart, and the assurance of eternal life which 
cheered him under all the trials to which in the pro 
vidence of God he was subjected. 

At every step of the delightful work of collecting 
and compiling his letters, new evidences of the fact. 
that faith, and holy love, and elevated piety, and 
extraordinary devotedness mingled themselves with 
all Mr. Taylor's exercises, are constantly coming to 
light. 

Perhaps a stronger exhibition may not be furnished 
than is to be found in the followmg letter to his greatly 
beloved parents : 

U J, B. Taylor. 



132 MEMOIR OF 

" LawrenuvUUt April 6, 1833. 
** Belonrad ParenU. 

" Beloved ! yes, in the best bonds, the bonds of 
our Lord Jesus Christ. Often have I held sweet com-' 
munion with you in meditation and prayer. This 
evening I have enjoyed such a season. And while 
engaged in looking up for heaven's blessings to de- 
scend upon my dear father and mother, and upon 
the happy family with which it is my privilege to be 
connected, my own soul was watered. How delightful 
the spirit of intercession, when the soul is warmed with 
a flame of love towards those for whom we plead. In 
this delightful exercise there is action and re-action, 
as I have experienced this night. The Lord gave me 
a spirit of prayer fur you all, and my heart melted 
within me while I prayed. Love to God and love to 
man pervaded my soul. Doubtless you have been 
blessed with many such heavenly gales in praying for 
others. May you ever have enlarged hearts when ad- 
dressing the throne of grace in behalf of your ever-af- 
fectionate James. And in answer to your prayers, may 
streams from the heavenly fountain descend to water 
the kingdom of God which is set up in my soul. I 
have not, my dear parents, a more convincing eyidence 
of my natural life than I have of the spiritual life with- 
in me, it PEAOE, LOVE, and jot in the Holy Ghost, are 
evidences of one's acceptance with God ; for these are 
within me and abound. O what abundant cause I have 
to speak of the Lord's goodness to me. But my tongue 
cannot speak, much less can my pen describe the 
marvelous loving-kindness of the Lord. O, he is good, 
and ' his mercy endureth for ever.' O that men would 
praise him for his wonderful works to the children of 



JAM£8 BRAINERD TAYLOR. 123 

men. Since I left New-York I have had a fullness of 
joy and love indescribable. The windows of heaven 
have been opened, and have poured down fatness. The 
oil and wine of consolation have been freely imparted, 
and I have gone on from day to day praising the Lord. 
Jesus alone is the source of my happiness. His pre- 
sence makes my paradise. Take Jesus from the Bible 
and the sinner's hope is gone. Take Jesus from the 
child of Grod below, and this world would be a desert. 
Take him away in the hour of death, and all is dark- 
ness and despair. Take him from heaven, and heaven 
would be annihilated. Let Jesus, then, be our all. 
May we walk as he walked, live near to him, and. ever 
follow him withersoever he leadeth. As the good 
shepherd, he will lead us into the green pastures, and 
make us to lie down beside the still waters. How rich 
his provisions ! How refreshing to our souls ! Fore- 
taste of heaven and endless felicity ! Lord, evermore 
give us this food. I feel that I am a pilgrim, away 
from my home and from my Love, whom I can only 
see by the eye of faith. But by and by — O welcome 
hour ! — my soul, and your souls too, will escape from 
these tenements of clay, and wing their flight to hea- 
ven and glory. And there we shall see him as he is. 
Who would not be there 7 

< My Savior smiles, and bids me eome.* 

'^ Behold, my parents, what God hath wrought for 
your son ! Once, he was an unrenewed sinner — a child 
of the devil — an heir of hell, and pressing on in the 
way to the bottomless pit. What a mercy that I am 
not calling for a drop of water to cool my tongue in 
that onextinguishable fire ! What grace, that I havf 



124 MEMOia OP 

been bom again — that I am a child of God and an bM? 
of life, traveling to the city of God — the new Jemaa- 
lem ! What shall we render to the Lord for his lore 
to me, his love to yon, his love to our hoasehold! 
What shall we render ? Our hearts— our whole undi- 
vided affections ! 

" My beloved father ! the Comforter, which is the 
Holy Ghost, the promise of the Father, you have 
had to dwell with you, and I doubt not he will remain 
in you. May you and my dear mother be built up in 
faith and holiness — grow in grace, and in the know- 
ledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ ; and so 
ripen for heaven, and finally be gathered as shocks of 
corn in their season. May I meet you there, where I 
expect we shall meet and praise God for ever. 

" My brothers F. and S. arrived last night. I re- 
ceived by them your token of affection. We shall 
share it together, with a thankful remembrance of that 
hand which has so often fed and nourished us in our 
childhood. What pleasure would it give me to enjoy 
a repast at your table! What pleasure to enjoy a 
spiritual feast around your family altar, and together 
in the closet ! 

" How are my grandmothers 1 I hope the candle of 
the Lord shines around them and in their souls, to light 
them safe to the world of life and glory. 

" How are our dear relatives ? O that they were all 
on the Lord's side. May he convince the unconvinced, 
and convert the unconverted ones, and make those that 
love him, like trees planted by the water-courses. Mf 
love to them all. 

*^My health is good— my soul is happy — ^heaveii 



JAMES BRAIKERD TAYLOR. 126 

smiles— Jesus is precious — God is my portion, and 
heaven my home'^farewell. 

" Your affectionate son, 

"James B. TAYtoiu» 

The following extracts from two letters to a lady in 
the city of New-York, then confined by a lingering 
and painful disease, which within a few weeks re* 
leased her from this world of sin and sorrow, will 
show how kindly affectionate was Mr. Taylor towards 
the afflicted, and how well qualified to administer con- 
solation to the saints in their trials. 

** My dear Mrs. R. 

" Shall I say that since I bade you farewell, expect- 
ing never to meet yoa again in this vale of tears, my 
thoughts have often run back to your habitation ? Yes, 
my sister, and they have as often dwelt upon your 
name and your situation with no ordinary emotions. 
Happy, thrice happy your lot; for all things are yours, 
whether Paul, or ApoUos, or Cephas, or the world, or 
life, or death, or things present, or things to come ; all 
are yours ; and you are Christ's, and Christ is God's. 

" When last in New- York, I enjoyed the privilege 
of sitting beside your bed and holding sweet converse 
with you. Now, though far removed, I can and do 
still hold spiritual communion with you, and what I 
now write I pray God to turn to your spiritual com- 
fort, and to the good of those connected with you. 

^ I said the intercourse I had with you was sweet. 
Indeed, whenever I left the chamber of affliction my 
soul exulted in God. The Lord has blessed me while 
interceding for you since. I have gained nearness of 
aeces9 to him while complying with your request. 

11* 



126 MEMOIR OF 

^ Pray for me.' And doubtless you have rested under 
the shadow of the Almighty with increasing delight, 
and found his banner over you to be love — that love 
which casteth out fear — fear of man, of death, of the 
grave, of judgment, and of hell. Have not your pros- 
pects brightened? Have you not seen by faith the 
land of everlasting righteousness ? Have you not 1 
But I stop — perhaps my sister has already passed away 
to her rest with the shout of victory, and received the 
crown of life ! 

" But my sister may be yet alive. It may still re- 
main for her to suffer as well as do the will of Qod a 
little longer on earth. Do you not reply. Amen, * The 
will of the Lord be done V If so, be assured the best 
is yet to come. God has great things in store for those 
who think of him, delight in him, and acquiesce in his 
will. Then count it all joy, that it is given you in be- 
half of Christ, not only to believe on him, but to suffer 
for his sake. ' He is not an high priest which cannot 
be touched with a feeling of our infirmities, having 
been tempted in all points like as we are, yet without 
sin.' Are you tempted ? Are you tried ? Doubtless 
you are still exercised with agonizing pain. Look to 
the Lord—behold the Lamb of God who purchased 
your present hope, your comfort, love, joy, peace, par- 
don and future prospects. See Jesus in the manger-— 
in his life of labor and suffering. See him agonizing 
in the garden and dying on the cross, and say, 

* Rest— rest, my happy peaceful soul/ 
Rest in thy blessed Savior's arms, 
Till all the billows o*er thee roll, 
Till life shall and with all its storms.* 



JAMES BRAIMERD TAYLOR. 127 

''A few more days and your happy release shall 
come. Your soul is now above ; your affection is on 
God as your satisfying portion ; yet you pant for full 
enjoyment — yoi^r language is, 'Come, Lord Jesns, 
come quickly.' Then fear not. Cast thy all upon the 
Lord ; he is not far off— he will not tarry. He waits 
to be your rod and staiO^and O how strong his arm— > 
he is mighty to save, even in the dying hour. How 
sweet to lean upon our beloved ! his voice is sweet 
and his countenance is comely. When your work is 
done, Jesus will come. Do you ask, What have I to 
do ? What can I do? Have you not to tell what Qod 
hath done for your soul ? To warn — to exhort some 
sinner to come to Christ. May you be faithful to Ckkl, to 
yourself, and to those around your sick and dying bed. 
The Lord has chosen you in the furnace of affliction. 
This may not be joyous for the present, but grievous ; 
but be of good cheer, it will produce the peaceable 
fniits of righteousness. It has done this already. Grod 
has sanctified this visitation to you, and to the salva- 
tion of your dear companion. Shall it stop here ? May 
it lead to the conviction and conversion of your whole 
household, and of all who shall witness the grace of 
Qod as already displayed. 

'* A word to your sisters. When will you, my dear 
fellow-travelers to the grave — to the bar of Grod — to 
eternity, prepare for these awful scenes ? Are you yet 
in your sins? What — and exposed to the shafts of 
death which fly so thick around you? Why will ye 
die — die the death eternal? Need you? There yet is 
room — ^room in the love of Grod, room in the heart of 
the suffering, dying Savior. Come, then, and have 
your sins washed away — come and be made the happy 



128 MEMOIR OP 

recipients of grace and love divine — now — now. Stay 
no longer at a distance. We are hastening to the tomh, 
and aQon our destiny will be unalterably fixed. I 
would rejoice to meet you at the right hand of the 
Judge. Will you not prepare to meet Cxod in peace ? 
All things are ready on his part; are you ready to give 
yourselves unalterably away to Christ ? Then come — 
come without delay, with all your sins, with all your 
burdens come to the Friend of sinners, and he will 
make you whole. His call to yoa is, ' Turn ye, turn 
ye.' ' He that believeth shall be saved ; he that believ- 
eth not shall be damned.* 

'^ Mr. R., you need, and I trust you find, the support- 
ingiiand of our heavenly Father. You have reason to 
sing of mercy while you talk of the judgments of Gk>d. 
Be passive in his hands. Shall not the Judge of all the 
earth do right ? And he is your friend, cleave to him 
— ' the afflictions of the righteous are many, but the 
Lord delivereth him out of them all.' Hope for t|ie 
best ; prepare for the worst ; the heaviest trials are 
from the hand of a Father. The cup that he adminis- 
ters, shall we not drink it ? Soon shall our crosses 
give place to a crown ; shall we be counted worthy to 
wear it at the feet of Jesus ? 

" I have enjoyed this day sweet hopes of hearea*. 
The Lord is good to me, and my cup often runs OTfr# 
May your prospects brighten continually. O let us 
strive to be uncommon — that is, eminently piottS| de» 
voted Christians. As we go out and come in, at all 
times, under all circumstances, let us make it mani- 
fest that we are for Cxod. It vnll coat us somethinf^ 
but the more we sacrifice and expend for him, the mora 
will our consolation abound." 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 129 

•* LawrcTiceviUCf May 9, 1823. 
* My dear Mrs. R. 

" Little did I think when I addressed you last, that 
you would have survived until thm time. Do you in- 
quire, why is it so? Secret things belong to God, but 
things revealed, to us ; and what we know not now, 
we shall know hereafter. 

" The Lord works in a mysterious way to execute 
his purposes of mercy towards the children of men. 
In bringing some to the acknowledging of the truth, 
he chooses them in the furnace of affliction. Thus has 
it been with you and your beloved companion. As an 
example of patience to others, he oftentimes con- 
tinues the rod of affliction upon the afflicted one, yet 
it is with the promise, ' My grace is sufficient for thee.' 
Be, then, of good courage ; Jesus has gone before 
you ; he has suffered cruel tortures — he died an igno- 
minious death; he entered the grave — but he arose 
triumphantly — and now is our elder Brother, at the 
right hand of the Majesty on high. Would you not 
follow him? Yes, you reply ; follow the Lamb whither- 
soever he goeth. Shrink not then from pain ; fear not 
the swellings of Jordan — the silence of the grave; 
^ for the sting of death is sin,' and when this is extracted 
through justification, and sanctification from sin, death 
cannot hurt you, and I believe will not frighten you. 
No; it is not the child of God — it is not the heir of hea- 
Ten that will start back from entering his eternal home; 
but the child of the devil and the heir of hell that 
must be alarmed and in despair. O, the joy and bliss 
of dying a Christian. The portals of Paradise are then 
not only seen, but thrown wide open, that an heir of 
glory may enter in. Who would not die the death of 



130 MEMOIR OF 

the Christian? And we know that the life of tht* 
Christian alone is attended with peace and joy. 

" While you are absent from your Father's house- 
while you remain a i^lgrim here below — may you hare 
much of heaven in your soul. I have longed to see 
your face once more; but farewell; I hope to meet 
you at the right hand of God — I hope to hail your hap- 
py spirit in the heavenly Canaan, and there join with 
you in singing the song of everlasting deliverance. 

" Since I wrote you, the Lord has been very gra- 
cious to me — I have enjoyed precious seasons. How 
good it is to draw near to the mercy seat ! Then it is 
that our souls cry out, ' Lord, evermore give us this 
bread.' I am unworthy — I am nothing — ^Jesus is all — 
he is the beloved of our souls. May he ever be the 
chiefest among ten thousand, and altogether lovely. 

" Next Lord's day I expect to enjoy the privilege ot 
witnessing to the world that I have chosen him for my 
all. It will be a communion season with us. Soon we 
shall eat bread in the upper kingdom. Prayer will be 
turned into praise, faith into vision, and ordinances 
into the enjoyment of his presence face to face, whom 
we now remember. 

"Mr. R., lean upon the Lord : he says, 'I will not 
forsake thee.' The language of your dear companion 
is, ' Weep not for me, the separation may be soon, but 
cannot be long. We are all travelers to another 
world, and must soon be there. 91 

" With much affection^ yclhrs, 

Jaiies B. Taylor.** 

Reference has been already made to the fragt^ti 
of a diary found amon^ Mr. Taylor's papera . It is ia 



JAMES B&AIMERO TAYLOR. 131 

what a Christian writes of himself, his exercisea^ 
trials, and the means employed to keep alive the flame 
of holy love in his heart — especially when it is design* 
ed exclusively for his own inspection, and written un- 
der the eye of God, and with a deep sense of his pre- 
sence, that we find a true and faithful exhibition of the 
inner man. Such was the diary of Mr. Taylor, and in- 
deed there is no evidence that he ever wished or thought 
of the publication of either his journal or of the cor< 
respondence, so full of the effusions of a most affection- 
ate and pious heart, from which the materials for this 
memoir are chiefly derived. 

Ic is a matter of regret that twelve of the earliest 
numbers of Mr. Taylor's Diary cannot be found. There 
are five remaining, beginning with No. 13, which bears 
date the 1st of May, 1823. The first notice is of paii^ 
and of its being sanctified : 

'< This morning 1 was visited with a sciatic, which 
rendered it difi&cult for me to move. But the Lord or- 
dered it for good, for it had a tendency to lead me to 
himself, and I enjoyed a foretaste of heaven. I mused, 
and the fire burned ; my soul was caught up from 
earth, and the portals of paradise and the blessed re- 
sidence of the saints were opened to the eye of faith. 

* When shall I wake and find me there 7' 

* Wrote this day to Miss W. May the Lord fol- 
low my communications with his peculiar blessing. I 
found when in New- York that my letters had not 
been in vain, but had comforted some and stirred up 
others." 



132 M£MOia OF 

There is evidence that this very letter was also much 
blessed to souls. We make the following extracts : 

" Do you ask how I enjoyed myself while in New- 
York ? With some of the dear children of God I had 
sweet communion. But, alas ! with how many of those 
who profess religion, and cry, Lord, Lord, yet do not 
the things which he commands, did I meet ! Was their 
conversation in heaven ? No ! Were their hearts there? 
No ! for they dwelt upon things of earth. Out of the 
abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh: their 
theme was not the goodness of God — not the love of 
God in their own hearts, and as manifested to others; 
but fine houses, handsome furniture, fashionable dress- 
es, beautiful forms, riches, pleasures, and such like ; 
and as a matter of little moment, they talk of this min- 
ister as an eloquent orator ; that as a line writer ; and 
a third as indifferent. True, the business of the world 
ought to be attended to in its season, but for a pro- 
fessor of the name of Jesus, or any other person, to 
dwell upon these things continually and with delight, 
indicates such a one to be under blindness of mind, 
hardness of heart, and contempt for the word of God. 

" Of conversation the jp^postle saith, * As he which 
hath called you is holy, so he ye holy in all manner ot 
conversation ; because it is written. Be ye holy, for I 
am holy.' And we nave the assurance that without 
holiness no man, no woman, let his or her name be 
what it may — their possessions, nay, their professions, 
what they may, * shall see the Lord.' What a re- 
quirement ! how great ! but nothing is impossible with 
God, and with him there is plenteous redemption. 

^' But to return : they are not without a hardened 



JAMES BRAIN ERD TATLOR. 133 

heart. Their convictions are lulled to sleep, if not en- 
tirely expelled, by the sentiment, ' We must be some- 
what conformed to the world.' Others say, * We 
must mix with the multitude.' For the former no ex- 
cuse can be allowed — the Bible allows none — the 
world will not — their profession will not. ' Thus saith 
the Lord,' should silence every excuse and quell every 
rising emotion of world liness. And what docs the 
Lord say ? * Be not conformed to this world.' What 
is this but an axe laid at the root of every worldly 
thought, desire, and action which are not subservient 
to our growth in grace and the advancement of Christ's 
kingdom in the earth? As to the latter, it is obvious 
that we must, in some degree, mix with the multitude , 
but does this make it necessary that we must be par 
takers of their sins ? No, nor of their follies, which 
are sins. Christ's prayer for his disciples is, ' Keep 
them from the evil ;' but those that I describe hold the 
word of God in contempt, for they disobey its com- 
mands, which are holy, just, and good. They mani- 
fest that they love the world, and the things of it, in- 
ordinately. The word of God says. Come out from 
among them, and be ye separate ; and touch not the 
unclean thing. Out of their own mouths they are con- 
demned. O ! these things ought not to be so — may 
our garments be kept clean and unspotted from the 
world. With those who mind earthly things the child 
of God can have little enjoyment. May the Lord arouse 
by his Spirit and his word, all lukewarm and worldly- 
minded Christians — if indeed there be such a com- 
pound as a worldly-minded Christian, 

** You will not think me an egotist, for I comply 
with your request, when I write of the Lord's deal- 

12 J- B. Taylor. 



134 MEMOIR OP 

ings with myself. The day on which I bade you fare- 
well, was commemorative of the most eventful era of 
my existence. You readily recur to the 23d April, ore 
year ago. From the circumstances attending me that 
day, traveling, dec. I enjoyed but little opportunity for 
retirement. How gratefully did I hail my habitation ; 
for the Lord had protected and brought me safe to my 
resting-place. I made the field, screened with woods, 
my closet, where I could address my Father in secret. 
How many, driven from home for the name of Jesus, 
have sought shelter in the woods, with the vaulted 
heavens for their covering, and there, as well as in 
dens and caves of the earth, poured out their souls be 
fore the Lord, who hears when his children cry. 

" Shall I transcribe what I recorded of the Lord's 
goodness to me the day after my arrival ? 

" * April 24. — Had a most precious season at the 
throne of grace. How often has the Lord blessed me in 
that very spot ! It appears sacred. My soul was melted 
this evening. My spirit cried, Abba, Father. Jesus, 
though unseen by mortal eye, was precious, as seen 
by the eye of faith. The oil and wine of consolation 
were poured into my soul — had a spirit of interces- 
sion for my dear friends.' 

" * Sabbath following. — What shall I render to the 
Lord for all his benefits ? My cup has this day run 
over. My consolation has abounded. The good Shep- 
herd has led me into green pastures, and I have fed 
upon the rich foretastes of heaven. I have found my 
powers too feeble to praise and bless the God of my 
salvation as I would, and could only say, Glory to 
God! Glory to my dear Savior! Halleluiah to the 
Lamb for ever ! O how sweet I have found it to ctU 



JAMES BRAtNERD TAYLOR. 13S 

upon God in secret ! It is not to be described, as you 
know, if you have felt the refining flame of God's love ; 
but it is ' iull of is^loiy.' Perfect love filled, and now 
fills my soul. 1 have wept tears of joy and gratitude, 
and tears of praise, at the feet of Jesus. I have called 
God my Father, with the spirit of adoption. Truly 
tlie Comforter has come, and I long to depart and be 
with Christ. How small, how vain the world ap- 
pears ! Alas ! that any should seek their happiness 
here ! O could they feel what I experience, the world 
would wane and dwindle into nothings But why was 
I made to hear his voice and enter in ? Why was it — 
Lord, why was it I ? My heart melted again and again, 
and floods of tears flowed gently down. How delight- 
ful such an exercise? What an antepast of heaven, 
when the soul holds converse with God ! While en- 
gaged in singing in the family, the Lord drew near, 
and my heart began to burn with love. I then retired 
to my sacred retreat, and poured out my soul before 
him. Ah, how foolish is such language as this to the 
poor worldling, the gay, the thoughtless ! But the 
child of grace, the renovated soul alone knows the 
joys of pardoned sin. * I had rather be a door-keeper 
in the house of my God, than to dwell in the tents of 
wickedness.' I had an aflecting view of my utter un- 
worthiness ; and truly I am a wonder to myself — ' a 
miracle of grace.' By the grace of God I am what I 
am ; a sinner saved by grace ; a sinner changed by the 
Spirit ; a sinner accepted of God, through Christ, and 
tending towards heaven, and longing to be there! 
Were it the will of Grod, this night would I go ; yet I 
am willing to stay, and suffer, and do the will of God. 
I hare given, and now give myself away to him ; I am 



136 MEMOU OP 

not my own ; I have been bought with a price. Jesus, 
be thoa my all ; be thou King supreme. Reign without 
a rival. Sway thy sceptre universally. Rule for ever, 
King of kings, and Lord of lords. Amen.' 

*^ The above is an account of my exercises for two 
days. This day has the Lord given me a memento oi 
my mortality. This morning I was seized with a pain, 
which renders it difficult for me to move. * We bloom 
to-day, to-morrow die.' But the Lord meant it for good, 
and I have reason to thank him for his token of love. 
^ What son hath he whom he chasteneth not ?' I have 
taken a view of the grave — of the bar of God, and hea- 
ven — and ray desire was to launch away — yet I sub- 
mit and wait. I see nothing here to live for, but to 
spend and be spent for God ; and no longer than I may 
be useful would I remain here below. O when shall 
we hear the sound, * Come up higher.' 

" This being the first of May, I presume you have 
been in the midst of bustle and confusion, yet doubt- 
less you have been in perfect peace. This is the ex- 
cellency of religion — that while the spirits of darkness 
rage, and wicked men blaspheme — while the world 
seek the pleasures of sense, yet never find any thing 
to slake their thirst — while the vain love themselves 
and follow the vanities of the earth — while they are 
disappointed in life, wretched in death, and lost for 
ever, the meek and humble followers of the Lamb find 
peace and quietude of soul below — peace or triumph 
in death, and God and heaven for ever. 

" Take your pleasures then, ye worldlings — enjoy 
the gayeties of life, ye vain spendthrifts of time — trifle 
with your souls — dance on the brink of ruin — sell your 
all for nought, and forfeit heaven at last. But let me 



JAHB9 BRAINEAD TAYLOR. 137 

live the life and die the death of the righteous ; for 
the righteous, the righteous alone have hope in deaths 
Farewell. 

'^ Yours in the best of bonds, 

"J. B.Taylor. » 

' P. S. I wished to say something to Miss M— 
upon this all-important subject. I hope she views it 
as all-important. But however she may admit its im- 
portance,, it will avail her nothing unless she feel its 
power in her own soul. This must be experienced, or 
she must be lost for ever. 

*' To the young ladies too I would say, hear the 
words of Jesus Christ ; ' Except ye repent, ye shall all 
likewise perish.' J. B. T." 

We return again to the interesting diary from which 
we began to make some extracts. 

'^ May 3, 1823. — Had a delightful communion sea- 
son at my stated evening devotion ; and found much 
pleasure in reading the Word, and in calling upon the 
name of the Lord. 

" Sabbath, May 4. — Another Christian Sabbath has 
dawned upon this world, which, but for religion, would 
be a heU, and its inhabitants incarnate devils. 

'* The Sabbath shed forth its cheering light, but the 
Lord of the Sabbath hid his face from me. Why is 
this 1 He knows the reason ; and so do I. My guide 
has been forsaken, I have broken my covenant with 
him, and the consequence is, my soul is in darkness 
and distress. Surely 'the way of transgressors is 
hard,' and peculiarly so to the child of God, who has 
not only tasted that he is gracious, but has been filled 

12* 



138 MEaioiB or 

with his perfect love. Morning daties weie attended 
to as usual, but the glory had departed. The form was 
there, but where was the power 1 My soul had by 
transgression left its rest, and leanness, the inevitable 
consequence of a departure from God, was inscribed 
upon it. I sought the Lord, but found him not to the 
satisfying of my soul. I repaired to the house of God, 
but my love was absent. Returning home, I felt dissa- 
tisfied with my situation, and refused to be comforted, 
but by the Holy Ghost. O how keen the anguish, * My 
God to love, and not my God alone? How keen the 
reproach of ingratitude, in forsaking my best friend. 
Thanks to the Lord that I felt my need and saw the 
remedy, and that I had the disposition to return to him 
from whom I had revolted. I wished to wander no fur- 
ther. My soul thirsted for God. I could praise him for 
what he had done for me — I felt that he was jiiat in 
withdrawing from me, and that were I in hell I could 
but praise him. I looked to him for direction as I opened 
his blessed word, and he answered my prayer. I opened, 
I read, ^ So fight I, not as one that beateth the air ; but 
I keep under my body and bring it into subjection, lest 
that by any means, when I have preached to others, I 
myself should be a cast-away.' The Word was sea- 
sonable ; I had not kept my body under ; it enabled me 
to have right views of myself. I hastened to the throne 
of grace, and found it good. The Lord dispensed his 
favor, and shed abroad his love in my heart. Thanks 
to his name for pardon and sanctification ! O, why was 
I not left to hardness of heart ? Not unto me, but unto 
the Lord belongeth praise ; for he bringeth salvation. 
Again I looked up to the Lord, and again opened and 
read hia blessed word : ' Be stxong ^i^id. oi ^ood. cou- 



JABIB8 nUOIfilB TATLOR. 139 

rage ; I will be with thee: I will not fail thee nor for- 
sake thee : only be thoa strong and very courageous.' 
May my care and fear evermore be this, not to do any 
ONE thing displeasing to my God ; and he will take 
care of all the rest. 

*^May 12. — Had a delightful season at the throne of 
grace, both in prayer and in reading the Scriptures. 
The Word is spirit and life — Lord, open my mind 
more and more to understand the Scriptures — ^make 
me mighty in the Scriptures. 

"May 29.-^ Wrote to Sarah, my colored friend." 

From this letter we make the following extract, as 
a specimen of the affectionate spirit of Mr. Taylor, ma- 
nifested towards the children of God, of whatever co- 
lor or condition. 

" How is Aunt Sarah ? Perhaps her mortal frame 
is sinking under the weight of old age, and ready to 
fall a prey to death — doubtless you look to the day of 
your death as better than the day of your birth. You 
will hail the hour of your departure as a release from 
your burdens and sorrows, when your happy spirit 
shall wing its way to the paradise of God. Does not 
your soul exult in the prospect? The New Jerusalem 
is just before you — that city that hath foundations. It 
is the home of the saints. There dwells our Savior ; 
there you will see him as he is ; and there meet the 
redeemed of the Lord out of every nation, and king- 
dom, and tongue, and people. Do you expect to meet 
me there ? I know you do—and I hope to find some 
humble place at the feet of my blessed Redeetnftt« i 
have nheady the eamest of the heaveiiVi i^^x^-'^Tva 



140 Muioa or 

that I may enjoy yet more and moiOi uid so groir op 
into Christ our living head. While yoa shall be praia- 
ing God in glory, I may be soanding the (Gospel timn- 
pet. Pray that it may be to the awakening of many a 
poor sinner, and the means of gathering multitudes of 
precious souls into the kingdom of God's dear Son. 

" The prospect of living to serve the Lord in his 
vineyard is pleasant, if it be his will. To die, I know 
would be gain ; but I am not anxious. The Lord, whose 
I am, knows that I am his, by creation, by the pur- 
chase of the blood of Jesus, by the sanctification of his 
Spirit. To the Lord Jesus, as to a faithful Creator, 
would I commit my cUl; come sickness or health, life 
or death, all, all will be well $ not my will, but the 
will of the Lord be done.". 

In the following letter to a much valued friend, bear- 
ing date LawrenceviUe, June 7, 1823, will be found 
sentiments and an expression of affections well wor- 
thy the serious consideration of all who are in the mi- 
nistry, or who are seeking this most responsible office. 

'* The past wears an aspect to me truly astonishing. 
My long course of iniquity before conversion — four- 
teen years spent in folly and in sin — my early impres- 
sions when compared with the multitude who throng 
the downward road — ^my being led to the Lamb of 
Qod ^that taketh away the sin of the world,' and 
made a happy partaker of grace and love divine — ^my 
being called of the Lord of the harvest to preach the 
Gospel, or rather to prepare for it — how wonderful I 
I know not, indeed, that he will put me into the minis- 
itfr^ but ' re the prospect ot beiui^ taSKKiiit»fa. 



JAMES BRAINtRD TAYLOR. 141 

rendering an imperfect service below, to a perfect ser- 
vice in the upper sanctuary. 

" I look upon my residence in New- York as highly 
beneficial. There I gained a fund of information, to be 
gained only in such a situation. Little did I think that 
I was then acquiring a knowledge of men and man- 
ners to fit me better for the sacred office. 

" Do you ask how I am affected towards my former 
employment? Never since I left it have I felt any 
desire to return. My aversion to every thing of this 
kind has increased, and my mind would sicken at the 
thought of ever returning to the business of this world. 
I rejoice in the indisposition to attend to any thing 
that is not intimately connected with my calling. 

" It is to be feared that some (alas t for them) com- 
mence stuay for the holy ministry from sinister mo- 
tives. Some seek worldly emolument — some popular 
applause — others, and we hope these are the majority, 
seek souls for their hire. Says a correspondent, writ- 
ing of a candidate for the ministry, * He has by his 
education become a different man, and has a different 
kind of piety, and time must develope whether it is 
for the better or the worse.' How sad, how melan- 
choly, that any of the sons of Levi should grow cold 
in the service of the church of Christ. How afflicting 
to the lover of Zion to witness engagedness in any 
Christian decline ; but particularly to see a candidate 
for the ministry lose his ardent zeal for the good of 
souls. But Met him that thinketh he standeth take 
heed lest he fall.' Of this I have been mindful, and I 
would ever keep it in mind ; nor would I be puffed up, 
or vain-glorious, that the good Shepherd bAXViV^^me 
inio his green pastareB, and fed me^ aad maA& xca ^A 



148 MSMon or 

He down by the still waters ; for who maketh me Id 
differ from the impenitent, the thoughtless, the hard- 
ened, and incorrigible 1 And what have I, that I have 
not received from him, who givetb liberally and np- 
braideth not ? 'Tis all of grace, and to God only wise 
be all the glory. 

'' I apprehended danger npon entering on my acade- 
mical course, from the many snares attendant upon 
such a life. I dreaded the thought of becoming a for- 
malist. The plan which I then considered best for a 
student with prospects like mine — nay, whatever may 
be his prospects, (and I am confirmed in my opinion,) 
is, t. Strictly and most puncttially to perform his 
closet duties. 2. He should exercise regularly for the 
benefit of his body. This will aid him in the first, and 
better prepare him for entering upon prosecuting the 
3d. — viz. diligent application to his studies. Bat the 
Lord has been better, a thousand times better than all 
my fears. Instead of declining, my march has been 
onward in the divine life. Were I to attempt a narra- 
tion, it would be impossible for me to tell you even 
the half. Suffice it to say, I have had, during the last 
thirteen months, the witnessing of God's Spirit with 
mine that I am born from above, and traveling to hea- 
ven. The fruit of the Spirit has been, from day to day, 
love, peace, and joy in the Holy Ghost. 

"The prospect to me is pleasant. I glory in the 
thought of one day becoming an ambassador of the 
Lord Jesus Christ to dying men. Paul was an ambas- 
sador in bonds. What a privilege to die for the Lord 
Jesus ! I said I glory, but not in my own strength^ for 
my sufficiency is of God: yet while I glory in the pros- 
> Dot anxious. I do conftideT m>)%^\l tlqxtd:^ 



JAMES BRAINERD TATLOB. 148 

own ; I have been bought with a price ; I am the Lord's, 
to be dealt with agreeably to his will. My times and 
seasons, health and faculties, talents and influence, 
life and death, all are in his hands. He hath done all 
things well. And my language is, 'reign in me, over 
me ; reign universally. King of kings, and Lord of all.' 
" Years must revolve before my fathers in the church 
will send me forth. But they are ministering as stew- 
ards in the house of God. When sent forth, may I 
hear the voice of the great Head of the church saying 
to me, * Go.' Then onward will be my watchword ; 
onward, to warn the sinner to flee from the wrath to 
come ; onward, to lead the anxious inquirer to the sin** 
ner's friend ; onward, to feed the lambs and sheep of 
Christ's flock ; to visit the sick and afflicted ; to smooth 
the declining path of the aged ; to guide the young ; 
to refresh the weary ; to illumine, if possible, by con- 
versation and prayer, the vale of death : onward, to 
live to and for God; to finish my course with joy: 
onward, to the grave ; to the bar of God 5 to glory." 

The reader cannot have failed to notice the high- 
toned and devoted piety of Mr. Taylor, as manifested 
in all his correspondence, and may well inquire by 
what means he made such attainments in spirituality. 
To this question the answer is perfectly obvious : reli- 
gion with him was no secondary interest, but the one 
thing needful — the absorbing subject of his thoughts 
and affections ; and with great constancy did he prac- 
tice its duties, and especially those which bring the 
souls of God's people more immediatefiy into his pre- 
sence, such as secret prayer, meditation, an^ xe^^vct^ 
the Scriptures, These seemed tobetVve'^eT^ ^Vixcia^sAs^ 



1 



144 MESIOIH OP 

of his being, and to afford the fuel that kept alire the 
fire of holy love in his heart. Not only in the forego- 
ing letter, but in all hid correspondence, and every- 
where in his diary, it is evident that he made commu- 
nion with God his first object, nor could he be 3atii»- 
fied without its actual enjoyment ; so that whenever, 
through inattention to the state of his heart, the pre- 
valence of temptation, or the derangement of the ani- 
mal economy, he found not ^ him whom his soul lov- 
ed,* he rested not till the joy of God's salvation was 
restored, and be could again say, ' My beloved is mine, 
and I am his.' " 

What in this respect Mr. Taylor practiced himself, 
he affectionately recommended to his friends, as may 
be seen in many parts of his most pious and affec- 
tionate letters. To his beloved friend, the Rev. C. H. 
he wrote, June 22, 182? 



^«> . 



" A siuied time, a particular place, and ptinctu • 
ality, I find necessary to keep up the life and power 
of religion in the soul. To attend to the duties pf the 
closet, an ancient disciple said to his company as an 
excuse for leaving them, * I have a friend now in wait- 
ing to speak with me.' Intrusion upon the hours set 
apart for God cannot fail to make serious inroads upon 
the health of the spiritual man. Let us, my friend, be 
punctual with God." 

Tt is appropriate to remark in this connection, thai 

Mr. Taylor sought and enjoyed this high state of pious 

affection and constant communion with God, not as a 

duty, but a delightful privilege ; not merely for bis 

i^fvjj sake, but for the bene&t of oOcieYs, o^iekd. %<& «i vftoai 



JAMES BRA1NERD TATLOR. 145 

(mportant part of his preparation for the ministry of 
the Gospel ; nor did he ever lose sight of the great 
work in which he so ardently desired to be employed. 
In a letter to a much esteemed brother, bearing date 
29th June, 1823, on his being appointed to the office of 
deacon iu the church, he wrote : 

"I trust you accepted this office, not merely as call- 
ed by the church, but by the great Head of the church. 
it is the consciousness of moving in the sphere to 
which Gxxl C€U(8, that makes his servant patient and 
persevering, and affords the delightful testimony to 
himself, that he pleases God. This is an office in 
which Jesus himself ministered. How careful was he 
that the wants of the poor should be supplied. He 
sent none empty away, although he himself was often- 
times hungry, and thirsty, and weary, and heavy 
laden ; weary in traversing the country on foot, and 
heavy laden in bearing a burden not his own. O my 
brother, what a privilege to follow in the footsteps of 
liltnmanucl, God with us. Do you not feel that you 
liave much to do? We are looked upon as those who 
must enforce precept by holy example. The church 
and the world have their eyes upon us. God requires 
us to be faithful. Our happiness depends upon it. Per- 
il aps the comfort, the salvation of others depend upon 
it. May it then be our study to be mighty in the Scrip- 
tures — full of faith and the Holy Ghost. That we may 
be properly qualified for our stations, how much prayei* 
and watchfulness on our part — how much grace on 
God's part — is necessary ! Lord help, for vain is the 
help of man. 

" To what I am destined I cannot teW. tvot wxv. \ 

12 J. ft.Ta^Aot 



146 MEMOIR OP 

anxious. I am blest with contentment while the con- 
viction abides with me that it is my duty to prepare, if 
possible, for any station m the church, and then to ac- 
cept of that to which Providence shall call me. My 
views are changed wholly from what they were for a 
short time. I am very deeply impressed with the ne- 
cessity of a thorough /t^ZZ course of preparation. The 
Lord has done great and good things for me, whereof 
I am glad." 

Diary. "July 4, 1823. — The Lord is as strangely 
good as I am in practice strangely perverse; yet I 
sometimes think I am the happiest creature on earth. 
But why am I thus ? Never do I feel myself more in- 
significant and mean than when I am blessed with an 
overpowering sense of the divine presence ; and yel 
with strong confidence do I approach my heavenly Fa- 
ther. I do not, cannot doubt my being a son of faithful 
Abraham, and therefore a child of promise. Not unto 
me be praise, but to him who hath procured it for me, 
and blessed me with this adoption. 

" 5. — Had a precious season before the throne of 
grace this morning. O the hidden mystery — 'tis hid- 
den from the world. Surely the sweetest moments 
enjoyed by the children of Grod are when the world 
is entirely shut out. Could the world know this; 
could they have one glimpse of the light that beams 
upon the souls of the saiiits ; could they enjoy the 
hope which the ilame of divine love kindles in the 
heart that trusts in Christ, they would be constrained 
to call him * the pearl of great price.' O the heaven 
of Jove I This evening, too, I am astonished at the 
goodness of the Lord 3 1 amawondw xo vsv^^^Xl -vVtaw 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 147 

I look at former years; my cup runneth over — my 
heart is too full for utterance ; but the Lord knoweth 
its meaning. Went after meeting to meditate among 
the tombs. It was starlight, but yet the darkness was 
sufficient to screen me from the view of passing stran- 
gers. In this land of silence all was solemn as death. 
And there, on the marble slab that covers the remains 
of a young man who died at the age of eighteen, I sat 
down and meditated upon my own dissolution. I look- 
ed at my feet, my hands, my body ; and must these 
soon be mouldering in the dust 1 I recoiled not at the 
prospect ; I praised the Lord for his love to me, and 
for the calm serenity of soul I possessed. My mind 
was now led to our dear family. While whole fami- 
lies have been desolated, ours remain entire. What 
a mercy that they have been spared, and that nine of 
them are hopefully pious ! Here my soul cried to God 
in behalf of all. I knew not but some of them might 
be dead, and the tidings on the way. Would I have 
them mourn at my departure ? Would they keep me 
from home ? And should I wish them to stay were it 
the will of the Master to come and call for them ? 
No, I replied, although it would be a great trial to bid 
them farewell — to see them no more on the earth. 

"I looked at what was before me — the work in 
which I long to be engaged, and prayed for wisdom 
to direct and grace to help. And now I retire. Come, 
sweet repose ; come life, come death, come what will, 
the will of the Lord be done. 

"6. Sabbath evening. — What shall I render to the 
Lord for his goodness this day ? Words fail : * 'tis un- 
speakable and full of glory.' O the sweet coxiytcvwwV- 
catioos of grace and love I He has foWowed rcv^i wvxV 



148 MBMOIR OP 

his loYing-kindness. I felt deeply the import of these 
precious truths : ^ In whom ye also trusted, after that 
ye heard the word of truth, the Gospel of your salva- 
tion ', in whom also, after that ye believed, ye were 
SEALED with the Holy Spirit of promise, which is the 
earnest of our inheritance.' I douht not I have expe- 
rienced all this ; I feel that I have been ''sealed? The 
sweet ^ earnest ' pervades my inmost soul, and all is 
heaven there. Hoav precious is Jesus ! It is he that 
charms and comforts my heart. I hear men talk of the 
works of creation, of lofty mountains and pleasant 
vales, of verdant plains, of foaming^ cataracts and gen- 
tle rills, the sturdy oak and the forests green, the fra- 
grant flowers and the standing corn ; I hear them talk 
of fine houses, handsome furniture, grand equipage and 
royal splendor; and a thousand other things which 
they seem to admire almost to adoration. But these 
are not my God. The heavens indeed declare the glory 
of God ; the firmament showeth his handiwork ; all 
nature is stamped with Deity. But what are these ? 
One glimpse of thee, my dearest Lord, one glimpse ot 
thee, as seen in the Gospel, outshines them all ; and 
when chou art near, my soul rises above all sublunary 
things. Thou art ray satisfying portion. To-day hare 
I been on Pisgah's top, and seen the promised land. 
Not long, and I shall rise higher. O blessed prospect » 
Now I go again to meditate among the tombs — I love 
such a retreat — to look into my heart — into the grave — 
into eternity. How solemn is this place ! Death with 
his iron grasp has dragged down his hundreds to this 
lield of graves. The young, the old, the middle-aged,* 
lie promiscuous here; the rich, the poor, the white, tlie 
>'/^"^'^ ;iU mingle and kuow no dlsivucvvow. \\v:iv^ vsva.^>i 



JAMES BRAINEBD TATLOR. 149 

lessons — important lessons are to be learned here. Be 
wise, O my soul ; the day of death comes on apace- 
soon this body must be conveyed to the tomb — art thou 
ready 1 Thanks to him who is the Judge of the quick 
and the dead, with the utmost composure I can look 
death in the face. I expect no pang ; the sting of death 
is sin ; this^the Lord has plucked away. I feel nothing 
contrary to love. My body may be racked with pain- 
but what of that? my Savior suffered. But my soul, I 
have no doubt, will be tranquil and unruffled. I can 
truly say, I am glad that I was born to die. Once, part 
of my grave-clothes were prepared for me. The Lord 
spared me. Alas 1 had I been taken away then, it had 
been in my sins. O the goodness, the long-suffering 
patience of the Lord ! Praise his name for ever. 

" Saturday evening, July 11. — About to record the 
goodness of the Lord to an unworthy sinner — where 
shall I begin ? where end ? It is too wonderful for me ; 
I cannot attain unto it. The earth is full of the good- 
ness of the Lord. But my soul knoweth that he is 
good, and his mercy endureth for ever. It is indescrib- 
able. I took my usual walk, and at length reached the 
oft-frequented tree, where I sat down and read, and 
my heart went up to the Lord ; and his word was 
* spirit and life,' * quick and powerful,' and sweet to 
my taste. Surely I never had such captivating views 
of the Lord Jesus. He was there in his power and 
love — but language fails me to tell all his manifested 
glories. 

* While faith presents the Savior's death. 

And whispers * this is thine ;* 
Sweetly my rising hours advance, 
And peaeefuUy decline. 
13* 



150 MEMom OP 

* While such my ▼iews, the radiant sua 

Sheds a more sprightly ray } . 
Each object smiies ; all nature charms-* 
I sing my cares away.' 

"After attending prayer-meeting I betook myaelf 
again to the land of silence. How many mementos <d 
mortality! They lie thick around. 'lam the resur- 
rection and the life ' was brought to my mind as I en- 
tered the grave-yard, and leaned over the grave of one 
who had died in the faith, and contemplated the sleep- 
ing dust, as it is now, and as it will be when the trump 
of God shall sound. I thought of what I shall soon be 
myself. As I meditated, the Lord drew near, and my 
heart burned with love. There I renewedly gave my 
all to him, and as I returned to my ' Bethel,' felt my- 
self perfectly happy. Little did I once think I should 
ever be so highly favored. But for. this I sought, and 
pleaded, and groaned for years. Bless the Lord ; he is 
not slack concerning his promises — he came sud- 
denly to this temple — he baptized me with the Holy 
Ghost — to his name be all the glory. 

" 12. Sabbath. — Spoke to the colored people this P. 
M. ^ Ethiopia shall soon stretch forth her hands unto 
God.' How they are degraded and frowned upon by 
white people ! My very soul pities their condition, both 
in this country and in Africa. Heard that a murder 
was committed a short distance from L— — . A man 
ran a pitchfork through the head of another. Alas ! the 
effects, the awful effects of sin ! When shall iniquity 
hide its hideous form? But why am not I the mur- 
derer ? Distinguishing grace ! Lord, keep my feet that 
they slide not. And may I never grieve the Holy Spi- 
r/L by which I have no doubt Wiave \i*^\i ^^^\^<i\.c\ 



JAAIES BBAINERD TAYLOR. 151 

the dny of redemption. Blessed hope ! Sweet expec- 
tation ! Transporting prospect I Heavenly assurance ! 
Bless the Lord, O my soul ! 

''July 15. — It is Jesus constitutes my heaven below. 
What a delightful manifestation of the Savior 1 have 
just had. An angePs tongue might tell, but mine utter- 
ly fails. This is the day of the week on which I re- 
ceived an unction from the Holy Ghost, m a manner 
and measure of which before I had no conception. 
What a blessed reality is religion : O how divine ! 
The Lord communicates with the soul as clearly^ as 
convincingly^ and as feelingly, as man with man, 
hce to face. 

^ 19. — Since I wrote last I have not had those lively 
feelings of nearness to God until last evening, when 
great grace rested upon me. I think I never had such 
humiliating views of myself, and such a sense of the 
condescension of God. My soul got low at the feet of 
Jesus, and I bathed tbem with my tears. How sweet ! 
and how welcome to my soul ! It was indeed refresh- 
ing, and I could only praise and adore my God, and 
admire the mysterious, wonderful relation I sustain to 
him as my Father — my Savior — my Sanctifier. What 
a debt of gratitude I owe for all the goodness of the 
Lord ! He has taken me up and set me among princes ; 
from being a child of the devil, to be an heir of heaven. 

^ In contemplating my latter end, the question arose 
what inscription would you have on your tomb-stone ? 
And in thought I answered : 

" * Here lies . A sinner, bom again ; a sinner, 

washed, and justified, and sanctified. A smner, once 
an heir of hell, a child of the devil, by wicked works ; 
but by graccy a child of God and an heir of heaven; 



162 MEMOIR or 

a miracle of grace, desenring all the miseries of the 
second death ; and yet an expectant of endless glory 
and felicity. Farewell earth ; welcome heaven. lam 
nothing; Jesus is all.' 

" July 23. — In reviewing the goodness of the Lord to 
me during the past month, I think I have experienced 
clearer and more powerful manifestations of his love 
and sanctifying grace than in any former month of my 
life. What shall I render unto the Lord for all his 
benefits towards the unworthiest of his creatures? 
Through fasting, my body is weak, though I feel strong 
in the inner man. May the months to come find me 
more spiritual and heavenly -minded. I long for in- 
creased conformity to the Lord Jesus. O for daily 
transformation into his likeness, tfil I shall see him as 
he is. I know not what a day may bring forth ; but 
more and more am I impressed with the absolute ne- 
cessity of a well-laid foundaiion for future usefulness ; 
and yet I have a most earnest desire to be in the field, 
whence is the cry, ' Come over and help us.' Still 
the providence of Gk)d seems clearly and forcibly to 
utter his voice, ' Stay,' and I willingly submit ; and 
enter the sophomore instead of the junior class, and 
to spend another year in hard study of the Latin and 
Greek, that I may be well grounded. How different 
my views from those entertained a year ago. With 
disgust I perused to-day some of my records made 
about that time, and was strongly tempted to destroy 
them. But I still preserve them as mementos of my 
folly ; yet lessons of wisdom have been learned from 
those very circumstances ; lessons invaluable, thongh 
at a very dear rate. I hope they will be turned 
tecount, ^ All things work io%evVk«t ^o\ ^ood^ 



JASIES BRAXNERD TATLOB. 153 

to them that love God.' This I believe, and am per- 
suaded those things were for my good ; for through 
them I have seen and known more of myself — more 
of man — more of God. I have since possessed a coti" 
tented mind, which has been a continued feast. My 
feet had well nigh slipped, but the Lord held me up. 
To his worthy name be all the praise. 

" Abraham went out, not knowing whither he went. 
I know nothing of my future destiny. I see, should 
my life be extended, six years of preparation before 
me. I feel much interest both in the Palestine and 
Burman missions. But, speak, Lord, thy servant hear- 
eth. If there be a spot on earth where thou wilt render 
me a co-worker with thyself, I consult not my own 
will. Nay, if thou hast nothing for me to do, I would 
stand still and see the salvation of God. I am not my 
own — I am the bought property of the great Head of 
the church. Go or stay — live or die. Amen. 

" August 10. — Last evening's hour of devotion was 
spent on the bed, to gain relief for the suffering body 
It was a seasonable and ^ light affliction.' It showed 
me my frailty — my insufi[iciency«-my dependence on 
the Lord for every mercy. How important is health 
for usefulness. Hence the necessity of great watchful- 
ness and care to guard against disease, particularly iu 
the minister, and candidate for the holy office. Alas ! 
how many young men throw away their after-life, 
during their preparatory course. May I be guided wise- 
ly, having — 1st. devotion, 2d. exercise, 3d. study, as 
my principal daily objects, with an eye single to the 
glory of God. 

*• Aug. 21. — This evening I had a bles«ed ^«^SW3^^ 
in waiii/jj^ upuu the Lord. My spmlua\ *U^^%\\\ Ni^'i 



154 MEMOIR OP 

renewed. I had a refreshing view of Jesas. O how 
much better than the pleasures pursued by the world ! 
There is a ball in the neighborhood this evening. 
Once I loved such scenes : but then I was a child of 
sin. The Lord be praised for turning my mind from 
folly at so early a period. Was it that I might do 
something in his cause before I diel I trust he is 
training me for usefulness. / know not ; — but He will 
make it plain. Lord, make me holy. Help me to ex- 
ercise myself unto godliness, and to strive in all things 
to approve myself unto thee." 

In all Mr. Taylor's papers, whether journal, notes, or 
letters, we find the same spirit of piety and Christian 
benevolence ; the same ardent desire that others should 
enjoy the sweet communications of divine grace with 
which his own soul was enriched. And while he la- 
bored and prayed for his own growth in grace, he 
was ever ready to use all the means within his reach 
to awaken the careless, to bring sinners to repentance, 
and to urge on the Christian in his race Among the 
numerous letters from which our selections and ex- 
tracts are taken, there is not one which does not 
breathe the spirit of love to Christ and to the saints. 

To Miss H , he wrote from Lawrenceville, Au- 
gust, 1823. 

" Since I had the opportunity of inquiring, as I was 
wont to do, into your spiritual condition, you, doubt- 
less, have had many a conflict Avith the worlds the 
flesh, and the devil. But what are these ? They are, 
indeed, enemies of our souls ; but he who is ' made of 
Ch^ wisdom, righteousnes?;, satvcvv^c^uorR^-aLwd 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 155 

nedemption,' will give us the victory » Whatever our 
conflicts or trials, afflictions or disappointments, in 
(his vale of tears, let us receive them as included iu 
the legacy of our Lord : ' In the world ye shall have 
tribulation ; but be of good cheer, I have overcome the 
world.' 

'^ On how many places have we inscribed, ^ Hitherto 
hath the Lord helped us !' Then let us believe that 
' the Lord will provide.' I am a witness that the Lord 
will provide — ' The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not 
want.' — * We are of more value than many sparrows.' 
Will not the Lord lake care of his children ? The cat- 
tle upon a thousand hills are his — the earth too, with 
all its fullness. He hath stores of blessings to supply 
not only our temporal but our spiritual necessities, and 
will he not do ill Yes, there is in our Father's house 
bread enough and to spare. Even here on earth, we 
may feed on angels' food ; and how delicious ! I trust 
you have been richly fed at the table of our Lord from 
day to day. The time was when we were strangers— ■ 
entire strangers to this sweet repast, because we knew 
not the grace of God ; but to me, though unworthy of 
the crumbs that fall from my Master's table, the Lord 
has granted Gospel-measure — pressed down, shaken 
together, and running over ; great grace hns been upon 
me. The windows of heaven have been opened, and 
showers have come down and more than filled my 
soul. The Lord has indeed done great things for me, 
whereof I am glad. I have no language to describe 
the heaven of love towards Gk)d and man which I have 
enjoyed during the last fifteen months. Of this I do 
nut boast, for the Lor.4 hath, in condescension «xl^ Vsn^ 



[ 



latjiivt. i«*t3ved ii cpoo a wonn. i;;e nnvortbiest of 
LTtniion ; aod tr> hisi be all the gloffy. 

^ D&es tje HoiT Spirit bear witness wiih your spirit 
<TAt TOO are a chi:d of God ? Tiiis is the ptifiiMe of 
f;Ten' Miui that faa« been bom of the Spirit. The 6«it 
of i;.*; .Spirit is lore. joy. peace, dtc. Where these 
aUiU'id. there the witness of the Spirit is enjoyed. 
Then it is that the sooL with child-like simplicity, and 
with filial cocfideoce and affection, approaches God 
and criea — Father — Abba — Father; then it is that 
'ieath loses its terroi? — the grave its gloom^^the bar 
of God its dreadful aspect — and hell its horrors — rather, 
the horrors of hell are deepened, but the fear of them 
is :^one. The &oul. with this experience, is conscious 
of reconciliation with God its Father — ^Jesus smiles— 
the Comforter is present — and heaven is desired as the 
home of the saint. 

'^ To enjoy all this should be our constant aim; for 
Sit'MH, dying, purchased it for us, and living', he is 
irH'h U} bestow it all upon us. The Lord make room 
in our hearts for the full reception of himself, with all 
ills train of graces, and finally give us an abundant en- 
trance into his kini^dom to enjoy him for ever. 

" Farewell — yours in Christian bonds, 

**jAa. B. Taylor." 



To return to those evidences of Christian character 
^Horded so abundantly in Mr. T.'s Journal, we tran- 
scribe the record of his exercises, bearing date Sep- 
tember 10, in whinh he appears, as might have been 
bel' 'thout this direct evidence, to have had a 

C09 narkably tender, and much alive to every 

tt the appeaTance o^ <ivV\. 



JABIE9 BRAINERD TAYLOR.. 157 

" How various are the assaults of Satan ! Last night 
t had a dream, in which a temptation was presented 
to my mind, and I was overcome. This morning I felt 
thorn of my spiritual strength, which I attributed to 
that circumstance. Perhaps this was a chastisement 
for an unguarded expression which I uttered to a gen- 
tleman who came in during my hour of devotion — and 
seeing me engaged with a book, proposed to retire, say* 
ing he would not interrupt me ; to whom I replied, 
' No interruption.' This was intended only as a civi- 
lity ; but my conscience smote me ; for he was inter- 
rupting the sweet exercise in which I was engaged. I 
looked to the Lord for pardon, and afterwards enjoyed 
a blessed season of communion. 

" Sept. 14. — I found, on coming home tliis evening, 
a note from Mrs. M. S., telling me of her deliverance 
from distress, and her joy in the Lord. She says, ' My 
friend, I hope to hail you in heaven, as the instrument 
in Gtod's hand of bringing me to the feet of Jesus.' 

» 25, — This day brings to mind the time when I 
publicly declared myself the Lord's servant — seven 
years have passed since I professed religion — O how 
much ! What great and glorious things the Lord has 
done for me since that time — and still I experience his 
goodness. 

** 16. — Blessed are they who are persecuted for 
righteousness' sake. I have had a small share of that 
blessedness to-day ; and I rejoice in it, because it arose 
from doing my duty in conversing with sinners with 
plainness, which is never acceptable to a proud heart- 
end from giving testimony of the love of God in my 
soul, to lukewarm professors, and urging the necessi- 

24 J. B. Taylor. 



156 MEMOIR or 

ty of a deep work of grace in the heart, and of the con* 
tinual witness of the Spirit. 

" Did David say, ' Come and hear, all ye that feai 
Qod, and I will tell what he hath done for my soul T 
and may not Christians now tell of the goodness of 
the Lord to themi Did Paul say, ^ We know that ii 
the earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved, we 
have a building of Gk>d, a house not made with hands, 
eternal in the heavens V and may not the heart that 
enjoys the same assurance, express it in the same lan- 
guage, even though professors of religion brand the 
assertion as an evidence of self-righteousness ? 

" Lord, never let the feur of man ensnare me ; and 
may I ever be a bold witness for Jesus, and for the at* 
tainment of that perfect love which casteth out fear. 

" Sept. IS. — Another death in the neighborhood ! 
How frequent and how swifl the shafts of the destroyer 
amongst us ! Whose time comes next ? Lord, is it I? 
After attending a funeral, at which I stood up between 
the living and the dead, and spoke to the people, from 
^ the time is short,' I took my accustomed walk, with 
a heart full of gratitude to the Lord for my sweet and 
cheerful hopes. I thought this might be my last walk 
along that oft-frequented path, as my time at Law- 
renceville is coming to a close. What a delightful re- 
treat this has been to me ! But this evening I agonized 
in spirit as T had never done before, in prayer for this 
people. While thus engaged I unexpectedly met — — , 
and with streaming eyes addressed him. He wept— 
the Lord bless his soul with conversion ! As I left him 
[ wrestled in prayer for him, and for our neighbors. 
My soul was pressed down with the weight of anxie- 
Ifelt for their eternal mteie%l«. ^Vi«<Q. ^xrvx^d at 



JAMKS BRAINERD TaYLOR. 159 

the memorable tree, I fell before the Lord, to vent my 
sorrows there. O the longing I had for this people ! 
All I asked was, for Christ's sake, that salvation might 
come to them. While thus wrestling and weeping be- 
fore my heavenly Father, an aged man drew near. I 
espied him. but did not rise from my knees, and as he 
came near I spoke to him, and testified of the love of 
Jesus. I found he had no religion. I spoke to him 
plainly and with a full heart. He soon began to weep, 
and wished me to pray with him and for him. I did 
with earnestness and with tears, and then exhorted 
him to repent and to come to Christ now. He left me 
with apparent concern. Lord, save his soul, and let it 
not be in vain that he came hither. He said he thought 
the Lord had sent him. I returned home rejoicing in 
the Lord, and happy in his love. 

" Sabbath, Sept. 21. — How pleasantly this morning 
dawns upon me, a sinner saved by grace. 

" I betook myself to the mercy-seat, and held sweet 
communion with heaven. Had a spirit of prayer for 

the people of L , but more particularly for my dear 

friend L. P. Rivers of waters ran down my eyes, while 
I forgot myself and interceded for him. Is this all for 
nought ? Is this agonizing spirit given in vain ? I ex- 
pect — I wait for the answer, while I hope for his con- 
version. How long, O Lord, how long? Come, Lord 
Jesus, come quickly. 

" This has been a high day to my soul. The Lord 
was with me in his temple, and filled me with his 
love. It is my last attendance upon divine worship, 
statedly, in this viUage, and I think it has been the 
best. Dr. N. preached on the text, * Ye wet^ «i^ ^Vl^^^ 
goin/ir Bstray, hut are now returned \o lYve ^Xie^V^x^ 



160 HEHOIR OP 

and bishop of your souls.' The word was spirit and 
life ; and I receired the truth in the love of it, while it 
melted my heart into love to Jesus, who had, as the 
good Shepherd, searched me out, and reclaimed me 
from my wanderings. How often has he led me iato 
green pastures, and made me lie down beside the still 
waters ! 

" I went this morning to visit a sick person — and 
now it is a matter of astonishment that I am recording 
the loving-kindness of the Lord and celebrating his 
praises on the earth — ^surely nothing but the provi- 
dence of God has preserved me." (Having been, on 
this visit, twice thrown by a wild ungovernable borse.) 

'^I experienced but little inconvenience from my 
falls, though I had a very narrow escape. There seems 
to have been but a step between me and death : but I 
thank Qod for these occurrences, for they have been 
already sanctified to my spiritual good. The good 
Shepherd made it the occasion of rich and bounteous 
provision since my return. I was not frightened, but 
my soul was full of praise at the time, and I have since 
had a precious season, interceding before the Lord fot 
myself and my friend L. P. This friend has been much 
on my heart to-day. Can it be for nothing? Lord, 
save, or he will perish — and bless his household. 

'^ Sept. 22.-^1 was examined in the morning, and in 
the evening delivered an oration on science, with the 
valedictory address. Thus ended my academical 
course, during which I have had a diversified expe- 
rience. May the Lord, by his good providence, direct 
me in my future goings, ahd lead me on to final vio- 
fory and heavenly glory." 



JAMBS BRAINERD TAYLOR. 161 

. Mr. Taylor now left Lawrenceville on a visit to his 
friends in New-York and Connecticut, previous to his 
entering college at Princeton. 

During this visit, we find him the same engaged, 
actively benevolent, and devoted Christian ; endeavor- 
ing to let his light shine, both among Christians and 
before the world; telling them what the Lord had 
done for him, and what he required of them. Both 
^^ publicly, and from house to Jumse,^^ he was em- 
ployed in commending his Master, in laboring to in- 
duce Christians to strive for higher attainments in 
holy love and devotedness to his cause, and in wam- 
mg and exhorting sinners to repent without delay, and 
submit themselves to Jesus Christ, as their Lord and 
Savion 

Mr. Taylor seemed, even then, to have very clear 
views of a subject, which to many Christians, and 
Christian ministers, appears to be still enveloped in 
darkness, viz. the duty of sinners immediately to re- 
pent and give their hearts to Christ. While no one 
could have had a stronger faith in the doctrines of 
grace, and of man's entire dependence upon God ; nor 
have been more ready and delighted to ascribe every 
thing to God, both in providence and in grace ; yet his 
mind took a strong grasp upon the bmding force of ob- 
ligation ; for his heart felt it, and he pressed duty upon 
both saints and sinners with a success which proved 
that God was with him blessing his labors: which 
has been acknowledged by many in life, and will doubt- 
less be gratefully owned by them in heaven for ever. 

There is reason to believe that during tVi\& '^^<c»>!vc^'Gk 
Mr, Tuyhr was made the instrument ot «xcv<m^ ^ 



168 Memoir of 

more vigorous tone of piety in several churckeSi and 
of bringing a number of sinners to repentance. 

At length the time arrived for his return ^o stady } 
and, to use his own language, 

" Having spent a week in the house of my Rev. &- 

ther H , and in the bosom of his endeared family, 

and in laboring in the Lord's vineyard, the wind came 

fair, and I embarked on board the S , Capt. W-*— y 

anticipating a pleasant passage : I have no doubt of its 
having been a profitable one ; for it was trying to tha 
faith of God's children, and alarming to the wicked. 
Our company consisted of the captain, two hands, four 
passengers, two children, and myself. We had pro 
ceeded about twenty miles, when the wind increased 
and blew violently. In the midst of the gak our beem 
unshipped, and left us in a perilous condition — the 
prospect was that we should capsize, and be swallowed 
up in the waves. All above was terrific. The billows 
dashed, the sea roared, the winds howled, and the hail 
rattled. All below was solemn. We thought on awful 
subjects — death — a watery grave — the b«r of Gtod — 
heaven — hell, 'the captain I believe to be a godly 
man : one more on board beside myself had a hope 
which was an anchor to the soul : the rest were aatfe- 

I 

conciled to txod. Alas ! iheir prospect was despaif. 
I thought, indeed, that I was nearer my heavenly home 
than my father's house. It seemed that there was bm 
a stept betwixt me and death. But, in the midst of tk« 
alarm Grod was with me to allay all turbttlenee withia* 
I looked to him for a promise, and he graciously gave 
me this, ' Fear not, I am widi lYiee? \\ ^q^a «wieet 16 
a/ taste, and made me stteng, "wViW^ Wvj \\imi\j«t^ 



JAMES BRJLmERD TAYLOR. 163 

Tevohring it in iny mind and calmly waiting the issue, . 
not knowing but the next surge would enter and fill 
the cabin and end my life. 

" A young lady, one of those that experienced reli- 
gion at S , while I was there, was quite composed : 

but another — O, how different ! O, her apparent poni^ 
tence ! her cries for mercy ! her weeping eyes ! in the 
prospect of death and damnation. To me she came for 
help ; but not to my self-^to Christ I directed her. Alas ! 
the infatuation of mortals, to put off preparation for 
eternity till the hour of danger. But thanks to the Lord 
for deliverance. His arm was stretched out for our re- 
lief. We were soon moored, and rode out the gale in 
safety. 

" I found my friends exceedingly kind, both at home 
and in New- York. The Lord reward my parents^ and 
brothers, and sisters, for all their kindness to their son 
and brother. I doubt not, that in this life they will 
hare a hundred fold ; and at the resurrection of the 
just, be acknowledged as helpers of the helpless." 



CHAPTER nr. 

FHrH yettr in Coikge, 



On tlie 6th of November, 1883, in tlie 22d year of 
his age, Mr. Taylor was exa»ined and adtoxtl^ % 
member of the SepJMiilore ^lass, in the coW^^e cs^I^^at 
0MU Hall, where be remained three yeax^i, n<Ai\c^' 



164 

tome, and cspeciall j those prepuing for tlie miniitif, 
will probably appear to be iJie most impoitaiit period 
of his life. 

It can hardly hare escaped the obserration of those 
who are interested in the spiritoal prosperity €i the 
church, that there is in our literary institutions, arisin|f 
from the character of the studies, and from almost ne- 
cessary associations, what may be called the college 
spirit — the esprit du corpMj vhich is very unfarorahle 
to the attainment of a high-toned piety. Indeed, such 
is its contagion, that however pious and devoted our 
candidates for the ministry may be at their commenc- 
ing a college life, the instances are very rare in which 
a disinfecting process is not necessary to prepare than 
for entering upon the duties of the sacred office. To 
this cause must be attributed much of that want of 
spirituality which has been the bane of the church 
through all her eventful history ; and to find an effec- 
tual safeguard against the legion of evils arising from 
this source, has long been an object of intense desire 
with those who are wisely zealous for her true and 
holy interests. 

On this important subject the life of Mr. Taylor 
sheds a cheering light, which shows that it is alto- 
gether practicable to pass through those trying scenes, 
not only without losing one's spirituality, but with 
large accessions to his stores of self-knowledge, and 
of holy devotedness to Gk>d and to the interests of the 
Redeemer's kingdom. 

None, indeed, may hope to encounter the trials of 
such a life without many a hard conflict; but the ex* 

^0 before un will thow that thtse tx\ai« hiy be aut- 



JAMES BRAIMERD TAYLOR. 16ft 

tamed with adyantage, and that in the issue yictory 
will crown the arms of grace. 

Perhaps more than most Christians of his age, Mr* 
Taylor had his eye directed to the leadings of Provi* 
dence, and more uniformly saw the hand of God in 
•very thing that occurred. With this habit of soul, it 
was natural for him to seek and rely upon the divine 
direction and support. 

Having entered college, he writes in his journal, No- 
vember 6 : 

" For what purpose have I come hither ? Lord, 
make plain the path of duty, and give me grace to be 
faithful. 

" 8. — Have been somewhat depressed in spirits for 
two days past, owing to a combination of circum- 
stances ; but this morning I was enabled to cast my 
burden upon the Lord, and he sustained me. My soul 
enjoyed a refreshing season. Thus I find that these 
walls do not shut out my God. How blessed I am ! 

^' 9. Sabbath. — Found it good to wait on the Lord 
in secret. The heavens were opened, and a blessing 
poured out upon my soul. Religion can be enjoyed 
in college. Lord, amidst so much iniquity keep me 
ypotless, and make me useful. 

" 16. — The past week has been one of mercy and 
goodness from the hand of the Lord. Beside a token 
of afiectionate regard from my friend L. P., I received 
one from my brother K. These favors warmed my 
heart with praise to God and gratitude to them. 

'^ 1 have enjoyed nearness of access to God in secret, 
and had a spirit of intercession for otViet^ ^^ ^^Yl ^% 
ray self. With tenderness and anxiety \ Vibln^ \\io\x^\. 



166 MEMOIR OF 

on friends, and on this college ; and have been blessed 
with a spirit of prayer for them. O that the Lord 
would come in mighty power, and demolish the king- 
dom of Satan, and build up his cause. The Redeemer's 
kingdom prospers at the eastward, and souls are brought 
in by scores ; Lord, send laborers into the harvest, and 
work by whom thou wilt work, only let souls come 
home to Jesus. 

'^ Nov. 23. — Lord, what am I, or what my father's 
house, that thou shouldst visit me ? The Lord is good, 
and his mercy endureth for ever. This day and this 
hour have I enjoyed the spirit of adoption sweetlf 
drawing my inmost soul with cords of love. How con- 
descending and how kind to me, an unworthy worm. 
He manifests himself as my Father in covenant The 
precious Lamb of Grod shows himself to my faith as a 
full Savior, and reigns in my heart king supreme. 
The Holy Spirit comes down as showers that water 
the earth. Praise to my God for the holy unction with 
which I have this day been anointed. The beauties of 
my beloved Savior have captivated my heart, and yet 
my cry is, ' more — my Lord, more faith which works 
by love.' 

<< < When thou fastest, anoint thy head and wash 
thy face ; that thou appear not unto men to fast, but to 
thy Father which is in secret ; and tliy Father, which 
seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly.' Already have 
I been rewarded. In the very act has my soul been 
abundantly blessed, and thus have I found it profitable 
to fast before the Lord this day. The blessing which 
he gave me nineteen months ago, he has enabled me 
to csJJ ro mind with thankful remembrance \ may he 



JAMES BRAIN ERD TATLOB. 167 

Still make my habitation a dwelling of righteousness, 
of peace, joy, and holy triumph. 

'^ I feel the want of a kindred spirit. Where is the 
spirituality of the church ? Where are the men and 
women ' full of faith and of the Holy Ghost V Lord, 
purify thy church. Had an interview with one dear 
child of God, whose soul appeared warm with love 
and decided for God : with him I anticipate much 
sweet intercourse. 

" Nov. 30. — Let the warrior boast of his armor, and 
the victor of his conquest ; let the scribe glory in his 
knowledge, and the sophist in his wisdom, and the 
worldling in his wealth and pleasures. But God forbid 
that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus 
Christ, by which I am crucified to the world, and the 
world unto me. 

'^ This has been a harvest day to my soul. The Sun 
of righteousness arose, and I basked in his beams, 
whose fructifying influence brought forth the good 
fruit, love. Indeed it is heaven upon earth. God blesses 
me from day to day. During the past week my meat 
and drink have been sweet antepasts of heaven — long- 
ing to see Jesus, and reign with him above. 

" Wrote to my dear friends, Mr. and Mrs. D— . 
May my communication be a word in season to that 
dear family." 

In this letter Mr. Taylor supposes them to ask him, 
" How do you like college life ? Can you enjoy reli- 
gion there ?" And then answers : 'M am happy to re- 
ply that I am pleased with residing in this institution, 
for several reasons; the chief of whicVi \s^\)^c'dL>\%«\ 
helieve it to be my duty to be here. TVie ^iiN^ivX^^'ftfe 



168 MEMOIR OF 

for the acquisition of knowledge are every way siifi- 
cient ; sucii as proper books and qualified teachers, and 
a complete system of operations. This regularity of 
procedure suits me well, and I endeavor ' to ha?e a 
place for every thing, and every thing in its place.' 
To enjoy religion, as you know, is to have a sense of 
pardoned sin, and the presence of Gk)d reconciled 
through Christ. This can only be felt where ' faith, 
that worketh by love,' is in exercise. Where this faith 
is in exercise no college walls, no sink of iniquity, can 
shut out the Lord. ' 'Tis his presence makes our pa- 
radise below ;' and his presence I have felt from day 
to day. Glorious have been the manifestations of his 
love to my believing, rejoicing heart. In this Bethel 
I have experienced many such seasons, and am look 
ing for many more. They are the sweet earnests of a 
blessed immortality. Lord, evermore give us this bread. 

" But a Avord to Miss S . Was my parting word, 

* Be faithful?' I trust you are so, giving diligence to 
make your calling and election sure. And we should, 
in imitation of our beloved Master, do good to all. 
Why are we not more ingenious in discovering and 
disseminating means of ' doing goodT This is a day, 
if 1 may call it so, of invention. Cannot you invent 
something for the good of the church ? Think and 
pray over this suggestion until you are satisfied. 

" A word to S . * Son cf Jonas, lovest thou me ? 

Feed my sheep.' How mighty this question ! And the 
office of feeding the flock of Jesus Christ, how delight- 
ful ! By your intended profession you will not be de- 
prived of this privilege. May you prove to be a beloved 
physician; But can you say. < Lord, thou kaowest that 
I love thee V 



JAMES BRAINERB TAYLOR. 'l69 

it To W . * Where art thou V Rejoicing in 

hope, and giving glory to God ? Let us not be willing 
to spend one day without becoming more like Christ; 
for it is conformity to him that will make us holy, and 
that alone. 

" A word to Miss -; — . What of that doubting and 
fearing ? Are all lost in the sweet testimony that you 
please- Grod? Cast all your burdens upon the Lord; 
and may you, like Mary, sit at the feet of Jesus — hang 
around his cross — make him your all — all your salva- 
tion and all your desire. 

"To Miss . Our Savior said, I am the good 

shepherd. Do you hear his voice, and follow him 
daily ? As a lamb of the flock, may the good shepherd 
carry you in his bosom. Let us lean upon him — 
commit our all into his hands, and thus lie at his 
disposal. 

" To Miss . * One shall be taken and another 

left.' Is it true, that father and mother, brothers and 
sisters, have been taken? and you — you left? left for 
what? Ask yourself this question for days to come— 
days to come ! who can tell but, ere to-morrow's sun, 
you may have left the earth, and the soul gone — 
where ? 

" Finally, a word to all. Exercise yourselves unto 

godliness, in constant watchfulness and prayer, and 

frequent fasting. Let the Bible be your companion — 

give yourselves to reading and meditation. Use it as a 

test to try every thought, word, and action. Let us do 

good to all. In a word, walk humbly, penitently, and 

m faith ; so that we die daily. Advance heavenward^ 

and be blessed continually, and be Via\ip^ ^ot «n«x 

25 . .J.tt.T«.^v>t. 



170 MEMOIR or 

With increased afifection for you all, I am, in the beat 

of bonds, yours, 

" James B. Taylor." 

" Dec. 7. — Another week has gone, and gone for 
ever. While passing, the inscriptions goodnews and 
mercy have been legible on every day. My enjoyment 
has not been so great as during the two weelu pre- 
ceding. And the reason is obvious — I wandered from 
the Lord ; and bitterness of soul took the place of 
sweet love : but the Lord heard my prayer, and again 
visited me with his grace. His mercy endureth for ever. 
Last night also witnessed my yielding to the same 
temptation, which brought leanness and sadness nnto 
my soul. With what depression did I arise this Sab- 
bath morning ! The Sabbath's Lord was absent — the 
Spirit, grieved, had left me, until I went into the cha- 
pel ; I prayed, and read, and sung, but my heart was 
gone. Still I had faith and a fixed purpose to wait on 
the Lord. I was solemn. I felt that the glory had de- 
parted. While the chapter was reading, my heart be- 
gan to melt into penitential grief ; I felt myself deserv* 
mg the lowest hell. I also felt that if I were sent to 
hell, I could but praise God for what he had done for 
me. At this juncture peace and consolation flowed 
into my soul, and I could praise the Lord. Blessed b€ 
his name for ever." 

On the same date he thus writes to his friend Miss 
W : 

"He who hath said, 'If I go away, I will come 
again unto you,' visits my soul with his love, and 
T»air^f jQ^ b^ppY here / and does \ie uoi ^^^^ ^ xo \«.- 



iAM£S BRAINERD TAYLOR. 171 

ceiye you unto myself?' I have had a heaven upon 
earth, even in this college ; and you do not think it 
strange, for you know that where the Prince of peace 
reigns there is peace. 

" Bat what think you of those professors of religion 
who, when you tell them of all this, and assure them, 
Ttpon the authority of God? 8 word, that they may have 
the desire of their hearts, reply, that they wish they 
could enjoy more of Ood's presence, but they are sub- 
ject to so many temptations, and have to encounter so 
many difficulties, they hardly know what they are ? 
Is not their state dangerous ? And does not all their 
hungering and thirsting after righteousness end in a 
mere wish 7 What saith the Psalmist ? ' Delight thy- 
self in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of 
thy heart.' Who that delights in a conformity to an 
ungodly world, its fashions, its vain show — who of all 
that follow the devices and desires of an unrenewed 
heart, can look for such favors from the Lord 1 They, 
and they alone, who make Grod their only portion, and 
delight themselves in the Lord as their chief joy ^ can 
live in peace — can hope to die in triumph, and reign 
with the Lamb for ever. 

'^ Let us give to those dead in trespasses and sins, 
all their sinful enjoyments ; let formal professors plead 
their excuses ; but let them know at the same time, 
that they will have to settle them at the bar of their 
just Judge. Let others glory in what they will ; but be 
It ours to glory only in the cross of our Lord Jesus 
Ckrist, to whom be praise for ever." 

Diary, Dec, 23.-^" Fasted this day,aLnAYk«L^«LX>aax^fc- 
Jul remembrance o£ thai season of divme coxcL\BMi3&^ 



ITS IIEMOIB OP 

cation so often referred to, which I enjoyed twenty 
months ago. I believe the work of grace has been 
deepened since that joyful hour ; the experience of to- 
day assures me that I have sunk low in my own es- 
teem, and that it is by grace that I am in the way to 
glory. At evening devotion could not find words to 
express the fullness of my heart ; but I could say, 
^ Lord, thou knowest that I love thee.' What precious 
hours I have spent thus far since I have been in col- 
lege ! The good Shepherd has fed me in his rich- 
est pastures, and here, my Lord, I give my little all 
to thee : still enlarge the vessel, and bless me abund- 
antly." 

Of this date we have another precious letter from 
Mr. Taylor to his aged clerical friend H — , of S — . 

'' ^ossavrHdUf Dec, 23, 1823, Saturday evening, 
**Rever<^Bd and beloved Sir, 

" Another week is gone, and I rejoice, inasmuch as 
I have one week less to remain this side of heaven. 
Yes ! I give praise to our God that I was born to die — 
to die ? to live for ever* The thought is sweet. * O the 
pain ' — stay, for where is the pain to the dying saint 1 
The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is 
the law. But for the believer Christ hath magnified 
the law and made it honorable ; and thus hath pmr- 
chased pardon, reconciliation, and sanctiGcation, which 
being possessed, sets the soul at liberty and makes it 
free indeed. To me it seems that for a chiU of Qod to 
die is but going from one room to another, rlis body, it 
MS true, may be exercised with exquVsvx^ v^vci, \sviX <(\^ 
wW rest, and calmly commit air\xiXoxV^^"wA» 



JAMBfi BRAINERD TAYLOR. 173 

of God, aad there lie at his disposal. And when the im- 
portant crisis arrives, huw sweetly does the soul lean 
upon the breast of its beloved and repose in his kind 
arms, while it breathes itself away from the clay te- 
nement to become a fixed resident in glory. ' O the 
bliss of dying.' ' This moment for heaven I'd leave all 
below.' 

'^ The reason why so many who live in the enjoy- 
ment of lively hope, fearfully apprehend the approach 
of death, I think is to be found in the notions they 
have formed of his appearance. But what is death ? 
Is it to be supposed that he is a frightful form, hideous, 
and terrible 1 Is it not rather the gracious appearance 
of Emmanuel — Qod with us ? What does he say ? 
' If I go away, I will come again unto you and receive 
you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be 
also.' When we die, we do not expect to see death 
■et forth as in hieroglyphical form — no — but as Ste- 
phen beheld, to the joy of his soul. We expect to see 
Jesus, who no doubt presents his kind hand, and first 
welcomes his ransomed ones to his own kingdom. 
What then should we do— what could we do without 
Jesus ? Take him from our pilgrimage below, and our 
manna would fail ; take him from the Jordan of death, 
its waves would overwhelm us, and our frightened 
souls would sink in endless despair; take him from 
heaven, and heaven would be annihilated for ever. 
Truly, he is all, and in all — ' the desire of all nations.' 

'' This evening my mind has been led to look to Je- 
sus, as the apostle says, ' Looking unto Jesus.' I was 
thas led, more particularly, because to-morrow istob« 
oiir eommunion season. 

^ 'Looking unto Juut? Before tVie 'WoACi vi%.%^V% 

16* 



174 MBMOiB or 

dwelt with the Father. And, O what glory aiu 

he must have had from all eternity I We may look 

unto him as God, hy whom the worlds were made. 

But had he need of worlds ? What do they add to his 

infinite, underived, eternal glory ? For whom, hat for 

man, was this fair fabric formed, and lighted up, and 

adorned so richly 1 Upon God's equal we may gaie 

with wonder, and adore his condescension. O what 

pity touched his sympathizing soul I. What the miglit 

of that love which brought him down ! Well might 

the plains of Bethlehem jresound with glory to God in 

the highest; peace on earth, and good will to men. 

And well may we join the heavenly host in praisiag 

God ; for unto us a Savior was born, who is Chrkt 

the Lord. 

* O for thit lore, let rocks and hills 
Their lasting silence break.' 

^ Let us look to Jesus during his state of humiliation, 
for from the manger to the cross he was preparing the 
way to bring many sons unto glory. O the contradict 
tions he met from sinners ! What temptations in the 
wilderness ! What agony in the garden ! But the won- 
ders of tJie cross! It is here our hopes centre. For the 
hope which the cross inspired, the primitive Chiia- 
tians were ready to suffer; nay, did suffer and die. 
However opposed, they preached its doctrines, and 
said, €rod forbid that we should glory, save in the 
cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. 

'^Extending our view beyond the cross, we may 

profitably look upon him whom we have pierced, as 

ariaing from the dead. ' He rose again for our jostifi- 

CMtion,' Wbtit joy his 4Uc\p\e« ic\XNv\L«& ^«at «|«k 



JAMEB BEAINBRO TAYLOR. 175 

once more beheld their Lord, whom the Jews had cm- 
eified and slain ! But he was soon to leave them, and 
triumphantly ascend up where he was before. 

" Thither our forerunner hath entered — our captain 
has led the way ; and now we may look unto him at 
the right hand of the Majesty on high. By faith, too, 
we may look at the mansions he hath prepared. But 
what is faith's vision 1 It is indeed a blessed reality ; 
' it is the substance of things hofFed for, and the evi- 
dence of things not seen.' But we want more, and 
more we shall have. Not through a glass darkly shall 
we see him, but face to face — see him as he is. Fear 
not, little flock, it is your Father's good pleasure to 
give you the kingdom. 

" Do we want stronger faith ? To Jesus must we 
look, who is the author and finisher of faith ; and pray, 
as by example we are taught, * Lord increase our faith.' 
Would we be what God would have us to be, what 
do we need but to be conformed to the image of his 
dear Son ? And how shall this be efifected but by look- 
ing continually unto Jesus 1 Are we ignorant ? He is 
our Prophet. Are we sinners ? He is present to plead 
our cause — a priest whom the Father heareth always, 
and whose blood cleanseth from all sin. Would we 
have all things brought into complete subjection to his 
law ? As King, he is on the holy hill of Zion. Where 
is such an example of patience under suffering ? and 
he knows how to succor them that are tempted. In 
doing the will of his heavenly Father, how assiduously 
and perseveringly did he accomplish his work ! What 
we find to do, may we do it with our might. The more 
steadily we look to Jesus, the faster we fth»\\ ivni^^^ 



176 

U^Mr wiU be our auaiuiMBt^ tke Uppier we sWl 
be, and the mofe w« sImU honor €iod. 

^ Bat when will our race be ended? Mf lereKBi 
father, do not f on feel that yonr course is almost 
finishedl Locrfdng forward, fon behold the crown 
of rigbteonsness. Besides yoor own honseholdy yon 
hope to meet many a departed saint who i»ce sat un- 
der your ministry, and was brought to God throni^ 
yoor instrumentality. If any thing could caase as to 
sing ' Hosanna to the Son of Darid,' next to oar own 
salTatioa, it mast be that God hath honored as, in 
bringing soals to ChrisL CUory to God in the highest, 
may be the united acclamation of pastor and peqple. 
Pray that I may nerer be satisfied with biead alone — 
that is, to labor for a liTing, but that I may hare souls 
for my hire. 

^* Dear Mrs. H , may I not say to you as Eliza- 
beth said to Mary, ' Blessed art thou among women.' 
Sorely the Lord hath heard your supplications, and 
yoor offspring have been bom again ; if so, what more 
coold the Lord haye done to his little yineyard than 
he hath done ? May your nursery of piety still receive 
the early and latter rain — be continually visited by the 
heavenly Gardener — and, when transplanted, I doubt 
not he will range you all among his trees of righteooa* 
ness, to flourish for ever in his courts. 

** By this time you are perhaps ready to ask, * How 
do yon like college life 1 Can you enjoy religion there V 
Not onto me, but to God be the praise ; these walls 
cannot shut out the Lord ; and where he is, there is 
heaven. I dr) not find the obstacles I anticipated. 
The Lord has proved better than all my fears, and has 
f/r0P y bread.' 1 have ted ou v[i%Aik^ IwA— 



JAMBS BRAINERD TAYLOR. 177 

my room has been made a Bethel, and I find it is 
growing better and better, instead of diminishing. 
My cup overflows — I am on my journey to heaven, 
with the desire to love God more, and serve him bet- 
ter. O let us keep near the cross, and be diligent to 
make our calling and election sure." 

The following extracts from Mr. Taylor's diary, 
show that he ended as he began the year, with God — 
in a high state of spirituality, and Avith an unremitting 
attention to the duties of religion. 

" December 25. — Last evening I walked to Law- 
renceville, and once more hailed my dear brothers F. 
and S. and friends, who received me cordially. 

^^ This morning I arose with much pain in my breast, 
but the light affliction was sanctified. After breakfast 
I took my old walk, and remembered the days of for- 
mer times — I stopped and overlooked the surrounding 
scenery — but I was on my way to that oft-frequented 
tree, David said, 'I will remember thee from the hill 
Mizar.'* What occasion have I to remember the Lord 
from that tree ! Although the morning was cold, the 
Lord warmed my heart as I knelt and prayed on that 
spot, from which many a prayer had ascended to the 
throne of grace. 

'^ It was truly a melting time — O what tenderness ! 
what resignation ! And I returned, after my heart 
had enjoyed the season, blessing and praising God. 

'^ During the day my mind was solemn ; and on my 
way home, as I mused, the fire burned. In the high- 
way Jesus was exceedingly precious. It \s do^ — ^^ 
triuae, the holy God^ that captivatea m^ Viw«\. — ^tA. 



178 MEMOIR OP 

to be conformed to the image of his dear Son is my 
supreme desire. Lord, make me more holy ! 

" This has been a good Christmas-day to me. The 
birth of the Savior has occurred to my mind, in all its 
circumstances, with pleasing reflections. But now he 
reigns on high, the Judge of all. What a mysterious, 
yet consistent whole ! And all to make his people 
blessed for ever. 

'^ 28th, Sabbath.— This is the last Lord's day of the 
year, and it may be numbered among the best ; for 
surely the kingdom of heaven, which is righteous* 
ness, peace, and joy in the Holy Ghost, has been set 
up powerfully in my soul. Much of heaven has come 
down to earth. The powers of darkness have given 
way, while the King has been seated on his throne 
within me. I think I never had such a loving child- 
like spirit in pouring out my heart before God, my 
Father, as I had this evening. It was surely his 
adopting love, into which/*MnAr. How it overpowered 
me ! my body shook with the delightful emotion. At 
noon, also, after walking, with a heart pouring out 
praise to my God — my God in covenant — I sat down 
and meditated upon his works — all of which uttered 
their voice in praise of their Creator : my heart was 
broken, and caused my tears to flow. The remem- 
brance of my youthful follies impressively recurred, 
as 1 beheld groups of lads who had been wandering 
over the fields. The distinguishing grace of God, too, 
was manifest, for as I sat, I saw two of my fellow- 
students violating this sacred day by secular employ- 
ment — preparing recitations probably for to-morrow. 
HaJIojv my Sabbaths,' is Heaveiv^^ Yi\%\v ^^oxNcckajad* 
"^ Dec. 31, 1823.— On SabWiYi ii\^\a \ xtVvi^^ ^^astV 



1AME8 BBAINERD TATLOll. 170 

exercised with pain of body, but with a solid peace of 
mind. I did not rest well through the night, and arose 
in the morning much indisposed. I attended recitation 
in the ftHrenopn ; but at noon betook myself to bed, 
after the Lord .had poured a blessing into my happy 
soul. The light affliction was sanctified, so that I 
eould not pray, nor did I wish others to pray, for my 
recovery ; and the symptoms were alarming. My will 
was entirely resolved in this : ' Thy will be done ;' — 
while I felt that * to be with Christ i^ best,' and the 
thought of dying was sweet. 

'^ Looking at my record, made one year ago this 
evening, I find my testimony to the Lord's goodness 
the year just then ending, and an invocation for the 
continuance not only, but for an increase of his favor 
and love, during the succeeding year. My prayer has 
been heard. Great and glorious things have been done 
for my soul, in secret with my Grod ; and of all men I 
am under the strongest bonds of gratitude, of love, and 
of praise to him in return. 

'^ Why may I not expect greater things the coming 
year? ' The path of the just is as the shining light, 
that shineth more and more to the perfect day.' 

" Lord God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacobs 
whose I am, thine would I be. To thee, through thtf 
beloved, I renewedly Hmd solemnly engage my love 
and obedience. O keep me — save me from all evil — 
and bless me abundantly, more than I can ask or 
think — all things are possible with thee." 

Mr. Taylor's annual letter to his father and family, 
at Middle Haddam, which he called hU ueu-^eav'a 
g'(ft, was written this year a little iu adirvnee oi ^^ 



180 MEMOIR OP 

usual time, and bears date the 14th December. Fiom 
this communication, full of affection, filial and frater- 
nal, we present our readers with some extracts, strong- 
ly expressive of gratitude and piety towards the Giver 
of every good and perfect gift. 

" Reviewing the past year, many things which 
awaken pleasing reflections rise to my recollection. 
No period of my life has been marked with clearer in- 
dications of the Lord's goodness to his unworthy ser- 
vant. When surveying my room, I discover one arti- 
cle here, and another there, which reminds me of my 
dependence, and shows the liberality of dear relations 
and friends. How much they have ministered to my 
wants, I cannot say : only, for what I have, I am in- 
debted to Him who is the first cause of the openingS| 
liberal openings, of the hands of those interested in 
my prosperity. But more of these will be manifested 
at the resurrection of the just, when our Lord shall 
say, ' Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the 
least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.' 
By the blessing of God, I have all things, and abound. 

^^ As to religious enjoyment, no year has witnessed 
such displays of divine love. And 1 may humbly and 
joyfully say, I have grown in grace. My trials have 
been few, and have all worked for good ; my tempta^ 
tions many, but in ifeaven's armor I have overcome. 
While my prospect for heaven gathers brightness, my 
determination to spend and be spent for Grod increases. 
I daily feel my nothingness ; and that it is ' by the 
grace of God I am what I am,' a poor sinner saved by 
grace, 1 am one year nearer the end of my preparatory 
course. One year nearer ^ "W lio \aio7ia x\«x >!ftfc Va^\\ 



JAAIES BRAWERD TAYLOR. 181 

Will count me faithful, putting ine into the ministry 1 
Concerning this, however, I am but little anxious. I 
know that my object, my highest wish, while on earth, 
is to be instrumental in bringing souls to Christ. If, 
then, I should be called home while preparing for the 
field, it would be only calling me from the toil to reap 
the reward. The good Shepherd accepts a willing 
mind ; and often, instead of confining one's labors to 
earth, takes the soul to heaven, to render a perfect ser- 
vice in his presence. And who will say this is not to 
be preferred ? I endeavor to take no thought for to- 
morrow : to-day my inquiry should be. What is my 
duty? Thus I am endeavoring to go on, in a regular 
round of duty. My studies are attended to with the hope 
that they may be sanctified to some good use. My 
hours sacred to devotion are welcome, and bring with 
them streams from the fountain of living waters, and 
thus keep me alive. O how refreshing ! how anima- 
ting ! The presence of God makes us as trees planted 
by the rivers of waters, which yield good fruit — fruit 
to the glory of God. 

" To look forward a year ! It is a precious — an in- 
valuable period of time. Thus, more than we do, the 
ransomed of the Lord, and the spirits of the lost view 
it. O that we may be wise, to make the most of the 
year that is bilbre us ! What new plans, then for do« 
ing good can we devise? or how can we improve 
those already adopted ? Why should we not strive, 
as individuals, to make our influence to be felt all over 
the earth ? The Lord help us to labor faithfully. And 
this we should do, not merely from a sense ot duty, as 
obligatory upon all, but as binding upon eaclt^^.tA^'^ 

ico now, as we know not but, ere the clOBe oi \B?^^^^ 

15 j,^tB.t\wc, 



182 MEMOIE OF 

may be summoned hence. Has not heaven something 
Ibir us to do ; something to make known for the good 
of mankind through us ? Let us pray over this interro- 
gatory ontil we are satisfied. 

" What is before us as a family, and as individuals, 
we know not; but to Him who hath brought us 
hitherto, all is plain. Concerning this we should noi 
be anxious ; for, ' shall not the Judge of all the earth 
do right?' 

" As for myself, I feel that the seeds of mortality 
have taken deep root within me, and I am frequently 
reminded of my latter end. But does this alarm me ? 
No : for every evidence of the approach of the mes- 
senger, death, I have cause to rejoice, rather than to 
be terrified. It is a sweet exercise to pass the Talky, 
in imagination, and look beyond, upon the peniy 
gates. Faith enters within the city, and walks the 
golden streets. 

* O glorious hour ! O blest abode ! 
I shall be near, and like my God!* " 

As Mr. Taylor closed the last year, so did he com- 
mence the new one, with a grateful and devout ac« 
knowledgment of the goodness and grace of God. 

On the let of January, 1824, we find in his diary, 
this short but expressive notice : 4^ .-. 

" The Lord has indeed given me a happy beginning 
of a new year. At evening devotion, had a blessing 
so rich and full that there seemed a want of room to 
receive it. Carry on, carry on thy glorious worii, O 
mf Qodf and make me more like Jesus." 



JAMES BBAIMERD TAYLOR. 183 

It is delightful to observe how this devoted servant 
of Christ labored, not only to grow in grace himself, 
but to stimulate others in the same blessed course. In 
this, perhaps as much as in any one thing, he diseo^ 
vered his own likeness to Him who continually went 
about doing good. In his diary, and in all his eorre> 
spondence, as well as in the recollections of his ac- 
quaintance and friends, he seemed never to lose sight 
of the spiritual improvement of those who professed 
to love the Lord Jesus Christ. In a letter, dated Nas- 
sau Hall, Jan. 13, 1824, addressed to Miss L , he 

wrote as follows : 

*^ It seems from your testimony that God has lately 
deepened the work of grace in your soul. How blessed 
to be blessed of God! What can equal that peace 
which Christ imparts in some favored moment to his 
disciples ? What joy is like that which flows from an 
unction of the Holy One ? It may be said of those 
who are justified and sanctified, ' Ye are the temples 
of the Holy Ghost.' And to them earth has lost its 
charms — those scenes of former gayety are mourned 
over, as time worse than lost — forms and fashions no 
more seem becoming. With what holy contempt do 
such look VMn the passing vanities of the world. 
Disgusted Wm these things, the soul seeks its happi- 
ness in retirement, and finding it there alone with 
Gk)d, leaves the worldling to his pursuits and plea- 
sures. Give me my Bible, a season for holy medita- 
tion, and an opportunity to call on my ' Father who 
seettk in secret,' and I envy not their joys. 

^ Having been so richly blessed oi Heweii^\ VtqaX 
jrou will go on, renewing your strengtYi^tom^v).^^ 



184 MBMont OP 

■r 

day. Vie need ' daily bread.' And close and intmMHQ 
communion with God the Father, and with his Boa 
Jesus Christ, is the food best adapted to the soul that 
has tasted diat the Lord is gracious. May yon find 
your closet more and more a Bethel. It is there that 
die soul must be trained. There the sweetest hours 
are to be enjoyed. Holy ones, in every age, hare lived 
near to God in secret. It is this that fits one to live a 
holy, self-denying, cross-bearing life before the world. 
• *' Since my location in college, the Lord has been 
very gracious in manifesting his love to my soul. He 
has communed with me from ofi* the mercy-seat, so 
that I have found that these walls cannot shut out the 
Comforter from my heart. Were it not for this refresh- 
ing from the presence of the Lord, what should I dof 
Methinks of all men I should be the most miserable { 
but with this my soul is happy, and often exults ia 
God. 

" Were I to suggest some rules fox holy living^ they 
should be the following: 

" Let there be constant watchfulness, frequent fast- 
ings, and contini&al prayer. 

^ Let the Bible be a constant companion for read- 
ing and meditation ; and as a test to try every thought, 
word, and action. .j^fe 

''Do ooon TO ALL. In a word, waHBubly, peni- 
tently, and believin^y ; so shalt thou ^m daily,' ad- 
vance heavenward hourly, be blessed always, and 
happy for ever." 

Diary. " Jan. 16. At evening devotion the windows 
heAven ware opened, and showers of love refreshed 
mnd. Mj heurt leaped fot ^o^« 'Nf^Ynx ^^ssrma^ 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 186 

things doth my God hestow upon a worm ! Grace ! 
free grace I" 

Of the same date we find an interesting and instrue* 
tive letter to one of his brothers, strongly evincing hii 
fraternal affection and fidelity, and exhibiting a lovely 
picture of that respect which the younger should ever 
feel fo; the elder. 

" My brother, I love you ' in the bowels of Jesus 
Christ.' In him you are the elder, and I rejoice that I 
may converse with you as a partaker of the same 
grace. ' You know the love of God.' But according 
to your testimony, it is not with you as in days that 
are past. Since you addressed me, it may be you have 
come up out of the wilderness, and are now leaning 
upon the Beloved. If so, I will rejoice with you. If 
not, I will sympathize, and my prayer shall be, that 
not many days hence you may be baptized with the 
Holy Ghost. Of myself I will not glory. I feel far 
from this ; but in Christ, through whom my peace is 
as a river, and my righteousness as the waves of the 
sea, I will glory. O the love of God, into which I have 
sunk, as into an ocean ! Peace, love, joy, and exulta- 
tion, like waves of the sea, have rolled over me. I am 
still looking to» isink deeper, and' am waiting to hear 
you tell me that you are happy in the visits of the love 
of God. 

" I know indeed that you have a thousand things to 
oppose your advance in the way of holiness, that are 
not common with those in my situation. But still » 
*Foes we have, and we must fight.' We \>o\\v \i^^^ 
great grace to withstand our enemies. "Bux^ coikSbSd^ft't- 

J6* 



166 MniDai or 

ing our employments, I conclude without hesitationi 
that your temptations and crosses are more numeiovs 
than mine. From the multiplicity of your cares in bo* 
siness, your mind may often be disturbed. ' None of 
these things more me.' The day rolls round, and I am 
charged with but three things of importance — my soul, 
my body, and my studies ; and I have a time and place 
for each. If time and opportunity offer, a fourth is, to 
do good to my friends near and remote. 

" As near as I can judge, the world has lost all its 
charms for me. I go not into it for its pleasures. I seek 
not my happiness among the wicked. No ; Grod is the 
source of my happiness ; Jesus the channel, and the 
Holy Spirit is the agent. Shut out from the world — 
shut up in God— -surrounded with darkness — filled with 
light, I Uwe alone, mad yet am visited from heaven. 
And if I do not grow in grace, I shall be visited with 
stripes. Pray for me, that the good hand of God may 
still be upon me. I feel that Grod is training me for 
something either in his vineyard here, or in glory 
above. I long for the best gifts, and to be found to be 
a workman thoroughly furnished. 

" I suppose you do not gain that frequent and near 
access to God which you once enjoyed. Do you now 
give as much time to closet devotion a^ou then did ? 
And when you retire, do you find yoiMhind fixed on 
God, and your thoughts abstracted from worldly things, 
as formerly 7 Let not my brother think this the lan- 
guage of reproach. It is love. And be assured, I verily 
believe you would sacrifice all, rather than knowingly 
wound the cause of love. If I mistake not, you wish 
" 'ive in, what I long to have you en^oy^ ihefullnu9 

•wf. Then let no eto^a^ cotis\!9Ai«dL \cm^ V«ai^ v^ 



JAMES BRAINEBD TATLOB. 187 

be borne in following Christ ; no loss too great to be 
sustained for Christ ; and no path too holy in going 
after Christ. 

** That you may possess all — nay, more than you 
wish now, or even think, there is not the least doubt 
in my mind ; and not only possess it for a day, but for 
years — nay, for ever, with the increase. And but for 
this, what is the religion of our Lord ? He led cap- 
tivity captive, that we might go free. He invites us 
into a close union with himself. He waits for a renew- 
ed and full surrender, to crown us with joy-^to feed 
us with plenty — to bless us abundantly, and to make 
us kings and priests for ever." 

Diary. — " Jan. 18. How repeated the goodness of 
Gk)d ! ' Ye are of more value than many sparrows.* 
* Your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of 
these things.' Yesterday I received an amount suffi- 
cient to pay my session bill, besides a token from my 
dear friend L. P. * Lacked ye any thing ? And they 
said, Nothing.' My wants have been supplied, and I 
continue to this day a witness of the faithfulness of a 
covenant-keeping-God. 

"Jan. 21. How shall I record the wonderful works 
of Grod to a sinner saved by grace ? Qlory to God in 
the highest. Language cannot describe the overflow- 
ing, melting love of God ! But my Lord knoweth, and 
my heart felt it at evening devotion. Shut out from 
the world, I held sweet converse with heaven. But 
for these visitations of my God, what should I do ? 

** Jan. 23. May the twenty-third of each revolving 
month pass with grateful recollection. TVi^ VoNvctv 
kindness of the Lord, O how great \ Eu^o^e^ ^ wi^ 



186 MOMBor 



•easoA during my noon-day wmlk. While I liaTe ha$r 
ed, I liBfit iMea fod with heaTenlj manna. 

'< O ! am I not blessed of God ? I sometimes think 
myself the happiest mortal on earth. And socm, glory 
to God, I expect to join the chmrch shore. I hare daily 
mementos of my mortality ; and my soul gets on high 
more and more. May I liye in heaven." 

The correspondence of Mr. Taylor was so exten- 
sive^ that it is necessary, in order to bring this memoir 
within a reasonable ccnnpass, to make selections ; and 
yet thaie runs so rich a vein of piety through all his 
papers, that the inducement is very strong jost to ar- 
range and print the whole. We find neither letter, nor 
note, nor record, in his diary, that has not something 
of the same all-pervading spirit of devotion, love, 
zeal for God's glory, and desire for the salvation of 
sinners. 

On the 29th of January he wrote to a Christian 
friend, whom he seems greatly to have valued, a long 
letter full of affection, from which we give the follow* 
ing extract, as affording evidence of his deep humility, 
the legitimate fruit of those blessed communications 
of grace which he enjoyed. 

** Hjr detr Friaad, 

" So far as I can judge of the highest enjoyment 
which heaven's rich munificence bestows upon my 
soul, it is when faith gets a view of God the Father, 
as reconciled, and smiling propitiously ; a view of the 
Son of God, that charms and captivates my heart, aa 
the beloved ; and a view of the Holy Ghost, as *ihi^ 

^mJse of the Father.' It is ax s\xc\i^ ^^^^oiiithdilthA 



JAMES niAINSRll TATLOB. 189 

windows of heaven are opened, and stmnu of loye 
poured down, which find a welcome reception with a 
humble heart that feels itself the unwarthieH of the 
unworthy. At no moment does the whole character of 
Gh?d appear more clear. In all his attributes he beams 
forth ; and faith, and hope, and love, and joy, mingle 
together, and flow out under his benign influence. 
And in testimony that the soul does not arrogate to it- 
self the honor due to Qod, it renders up its all, its lit- 
tle all, in return for favors so divine. What exercise 
then takes up the soul ? It is one that verges still near- 
er heaven — prayer is turned into praise. How do the 
goodness, the love, and the mercy of Qod enlarge at 
every view ! And his holiness and his justice, too, 
gather loveliness. The soul feels forgiven and washed, 
but cannot forgive itself. With the conviction of its 
ill desert, viz. the lowest hell, the soul wonders at its 
escape from the burning lake. 

" The tone of piety is not so high among profess- 
ors of religion in our colleges as it should be. Alas I 
why so much worldly-mindedness ? Why so much 
formality 1 To tell you the plain truth, there is not 
enough of spirituality here ; not so much as I expect- 
ed to find. My studies crowd upon me, so that I have 
a little more to do in my literary pursuits than /would 
choose : but it will doubtless be for the best. 

'' The good Shepherd has caused me to feed in green 
pastures since I wrote last. He is mindful of one who 
stands in need of continual and increased aid. 

'^ Not having a disposition to go out, I seldom leave 
my Bethel, save when duty calls. The more I see of 
the world, its forms and its fashions, the mote ^o\ ^«.^ 
hMi all is vanity. How blind, how mfatuaXe^ \% %voe- 



190 iMiDnor 



falmaal What m gaody show is this world ! Whm 
thanks wa owe to heayen for such a discorery ! May 
our constant prayer ascend : ' Lord, torn off mine eves 
from beholding Tanity.* 

^^ I tmst yon are all making rapid progress in tiie di- 
vine life. Amidst temptations and fiery darts, we need 
the whole armor of Grod. The armor of men, how 
ever cnrioasly wrought, still leaves the warrior yuI- 
nerable ; bat with the whole armor of Qod we can 
stand — stand against the adversary and all his wiles. 
Who then would rest short of the ' whole V apart will 
not answer. The Lord put the whole armor upon us, 
and help us to keep it hright by constant use. 

" Soon these conflicts will be over. Who would re- 
main beyond the time appointed of the Father ? And 
none ought to desire to depart, till Jesus comes agree* 
ably to his promise : ' I will come again and receive 
you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be 
also.' What will it be to be with Christ above ? To 
be with him on earth makes our heaven below. This 
also we know, ^ that when Christ, who is our life, 
shall appear, we shall be like him ; for we shall see 
him as he is.' " 

A letter written about this time to some relations 
in Tolland, Connecticut, shows that Mr. Taylor was 
skilled in administering consolation to the afflicted, as 
well as in exciting the saints to that diligence through 
which the assurance of hope is attained : 

*^ I suppose N. is still under the chastening rod of 
heavenly Father. But methinks you say. Does this 
■n deierre the name oC ^ lodT \ ^wM \tfA\^Ar 



JAMBS BRAINBIB TAYLOB. 191 

coroing to your testimony, you have found a rich re- 
muneration for all your privations. And we may set it 
down as a maxim established beyond question, that 
God will take nothing from his children without be- 
stowing something better, either in kind or in amount. 

" The good and afflicted Jeremiah said, ' It is good 
for a man to bear the yoke in his youth.' Lam. 3 : 27. 
And we are not to suppose that it is not good also for 
those of riper years. It has been the testimony of the 
saints, in every age, that ^ affliction works for good to 
them that love God.' 

'^ But how is it good to bear the yoke, or to experi- 
ence affliction ? The context tells us, ^he sitteth alone.' 
**The afflicted one is blessed with retirement, free 
from the bustle and din of the world ; has an oppor- 
tunity for reflection, self-examination, and self-dedica- 
tion to God, which the season calls for, and calls loudly. 
Not that this cannot and ought not to be done at other 
times, and by all ; but when the hand of God is upon 
us, we feel more than ever the importance of a com- 
plete surrender. Is not this good ? 

" ' He putteth his mouth in the dust.' To bear the 
yoke tends to produce humility and submission. It 
shows one's frailty and entire dependence. Were we 
always in prosperity, we should not partake of all the 
legacy which Christ hath left to his disciples. By be- 
coming acquainted with our weakness, we are induced 
with more humble reliance to depend on Him who 
is the strength of our heart and our portion for ever. 
And would we not share in all the ingredients of the 
cup which our heavenly Father hath prescribed for us 1 
Certainly ; for though not joyous for the ^ie^^\iX^\raX 
grievous, yet afterwards it y ieldeth the peac<&iVi\^ IwwX'^ 



193 

of righteousness. And let one haye peace inbelieriqf 
and jof in the Holy Ghost, the world may rage, anl 
the pains of death may get hold on hhn, bat atUl he Is 
Id peace, and can triumph. Here is a secret in leligioB 
that the world cannot know, for it secth not, -nm eom- 
prehendeth it. But, glory to GU)d, to ns it is IM mys- 
tery. And wc expect to triumph in a dying how. 

'^ ' He giveth his cheek to him that smiteth him.' 
Afflictions tend to produce patience. How mneh of 
this grace we need 1 

" ' He is filled with reproach.' Sanctified afiUctions 
draw forth acbMfirMgnieiits of the justness of Godi 
and the s<iHl' ffcoa vlJled, condemns itself, and giyes 
praise to Goi. They greatly quicken to duty. Earth 
fades more and mors. The grave is viewed with com- 
posure. Prayer is more ardent. Heaven appears nearer 
and brighter, and the soul longs to fly away and dwell 
above. 

'^ If such be the fruits of bearing the yoke, who 
would not bear it? But we must not solicit it. It is 
the prerogative of heaven to put it on, to sustain as 
under it, and to remove it from us. 

" May you find more and more, that good fruit is 
produced by the pruning of the branch. The Husband- 
man water thee by his Spirit ! and may he communi- 
cate much of his vivifying influence, that you may 
flourish as the palm-tree, and as the willow by XhB 
water-courses. 

"I have not much to say of myself; but I can yet 

testify of the riches of the grace of God. I am yet a 

miracle of grace — yet a pilgrim ; and glory that I am 

eoanted worthy to bear the cross. Heaven's rich mn- 

n/'^ 'f manifested in the c\io\<ie%t ol \\a ^x^t%%\sfe» 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 193 

Stowed upon the most unworthy. These college walls 
do not shut out my Gk>d ; my room hath become, from 
the first, a glorious Bethel — yes, a little heaven. It is 
a sacred spot, where my soul hath often drunk of the 
riyer of the water of life. ' God is lore.' This is my 
theme below : * God is love.' Help me to praise him 
for what he has done for my soul. He hath done great 
things and marvelous, whereof I am glad, and would 
rejoice. I wish to live for none else besides my God, 
and feel an increased determination to spend and be 
spent for him* 

^' Twenty-one months have now gone by since He 
so powerfully blessed me ; — rich seasons, and richer 
still have I enjoyed since, and richer still am I expect- 
ing below. But heaven ! heaven ! There is a heaven 
to come — a holy heaven — an eternal rest — a glcnrious 
habitation ; and new glories are yet to be revealed. 

^' Well, we are on our journey ; but, alas ! some of 
our dear relatives are yet behind — still without a new 
heart — yet destitute of vital piety, however excellent 
and amiable in their moral deportment. But farewell, . 
even to them ; an eternal heart-rending farewell, even 
to those we love, if they will not regard the voice of 
God. We cannot give up our hope for their joys, nor 
join hands with the wicked. May they be saved — may 
they be saved, and with us gathered into the fold of 
Christ." 

On the 31st January, Mr. Taylor wrote the follow? 
ing note to his friend Miss W^— , of New-York : 

'' Of you 1 have not heard a word for moc« iXiaxk ^ 
month, and pendrentme I may be addT^mtiV, ^^ 

17 J.'B.TmjiVjit. 



IM MBMOIB OF 

dead. In erery paper I receive, I generally look fine 
for those solemn meinentos of man's mortality. Ah, 
wc don't see the half of the ravages that death is 
making in our world. Hundreds upon hundreds crowd 
the dark valley from day to day — millions upon mil-i 
lions, in quick succession, have gone into the etomal 
world. But my friend may yet he on this side Jordan, 
yet suffering and doing the will of her heavenly Fa- 
ther. Well — ^he knows what is best. It is he that 
commences, continues, and ends the mortal existence 
of his creatures : and would we he at the disposal of 
any other? No*« In his will would we acquiesce, 
concerning life, health, and all our enjoyments. To 
rest here is to rest safely ; and if we acknowledge the 
Lord in all our ways, he will direct our steps. Tour 
cup for years has been one of suffering, but mingled 
with many a precious sweet You can tell this world 
that you suffer, and they will believe you ; again, you 
may tell them that the love of Grod helps you to for- 
get, or to triumph over your pains, and they vnll only 
stare. But, however they may wonder, still it is true, 
so true that you may bless the Lord for the pains you 
endure. 

^' May you find more and more that the good Shep- 
herd feeds you as one of his sheep. May he keep you 
in joyful anticipation of entering the fold above. 
^ Where I am, there shall ye be also.' ' Fear not, little 
fiock ; it is your Father's good pleasure to give you 
the kingdom.' We know in whom we have believed, 
and that he hath set up in our hearts that kingdom 
which is righteousness, peace, and jm in the Holy 
Qhoat. O may it be set up with moil^power. 
" The good band of out God \atvpon.m^. \ll^ vmb^ 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 195 

IS Still made a Bethel. It is religion that shines more 
and more to the perfect day." 

Of the same date is a letter to his parents, in which 
he shows (and this seems to have been the constant 
state of his heart) how dead he was to the world, and 
how he lived on the very confines of heaven. 

" I am still a pilgrim, and the good hand of God is 
upon me. ' His loving-kindness, O how strong V I 
glory that I am a pilgrim,^^ 

How truly he acknowledged God in all his ways, 
deserves to be noticed and imitated. Nothing seems 
to have occurred, in which he did not distinctly recog^ 
nize the hand of his heavenly Father. In his diary 
he records, 

'' Among other mercies, I unexpectedly hailed my 

dear brother J , who called upon me this evening 

on his way to New-York, from the south. My sessioii 
bills are all settled. The Lord has made provision 
for me without one exertion of my own. Is not this 
providential ? O he taketh care of the sparrows | and 
he has satisfied me with every good thing.'' 

'^ Feb. 8. — Returned this morning from visiting 
Lawrenceville, and it was grateful once more, after 
an absence of only thirty hours, to return to my room 
again. Change of place is not favorable to growth in 
grace. Visiting and journeying, to me, unless imme- 
diately engaged in the service of Grod, are not so ad« 
vantageous Ira sweet retirement. But I h&v^ \^««^ 
tmE^bt lessons whereby I hope . to pxo^l ^\k)\^ ^ 



!96 

world aad ite jof 8 become tastekM to my sosl ; I km* 
set for the heayeniy mmnna. 

" My friend L. P. conveyed me from LawreneeriUe 
to Princeton in his gig. F^edous soul, I ter lor him. 
Howerer moral, amiable, and upright in his outwaid 
deportment, his heart, I fear, is yet nnreconciled to 
God. Nay, I haye nodoabt of it; forif heloTedOod, 
would he not loye to talk of the power of his loTe? 
If he loyed Jesus, would he not tell of kit loye ? 
But no ; when the subject comes home he seems to be 
a stranger to grace. And shall I cease to pray Sat 
him? No— let my supplications be increased in his 
behalfl Shall I not see an answer to my strong cries 
and tears which have already been poured out for 
him ? O that salvation might come to his house ! 

" At evening devotion had a delightful season. My 
Father smiled — ^Jesus drew near — the Comforter de- 
scended — and I could praise the Lord and give glory 
to my God — and at church too, rich food — that bread 
which Cometh down from heaven, was communicated, 
and my bovlI feasted.^ 

* Love dirine, all love exceUinf .' 

" O the sweet peace of my happy soul ; ' Tell me 
no more of earthly toys f Christ is my theme, and 
Christ my song. None but Jesus and him crucified ! 

" Feb. 18. — This morning, just before I arose, had 
a view in my sleep, which has left a solemn imprea- 
sion on my mind : I seemed to be in a store, in com- 
pany with a few persons, when suddenly a sound 
came as the voice of thunder, and light spread all 
MTOund, and a rider upon a frightened horse passed 
XDifoir— alarm seized a\V atoun^ m%^ veA ^a* *\& 



JAMES BRAINBRD TAYLOR. 107 

particular. The scene was again repeated in quick 
succession ; and, looking up, I saw an appearance like 
the sun descending majestically, but with mighty 
force, and dashed it upon the earth. Immediately after, 
there appeared, in various directions, large balls, as of 
melted iron, which were driven about with the velo- 
city of lightning. I awoke, but unaiarmed, as in tbe 
midst of the shock, looking unto the Lord. 

'^ The reflectioU that arose was, how easily could 
almighty God dissolve this earth, and summon the 
world to judgment. And as easily can he dash his 
foes to pieces. O the day of the Lord will come as a 
thief in the night; in the which the heavens shall 
pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall 
melt with fervent heat ; the earth also, and the works 
that are ' therein, shall be burned up.' 

" Feb. 20. — Although weary with my labor, before 
retiring I would record the rich display of the loye of 
my covenant God. Went into the prayer-hall this 
evening with my mind troubled, principally from the 
necessity of so constant attention to my studies, and 
that I had no more time for reading the Scriptures, 
meditation, and prayer. My heavenly Father wit- 
nessed the movings and the sincerity of my heart, and 
graciously smiled upon me. My Jesus sympathized 
with me — my Comforter drew near ; and O what a 
blessing was poured into my soul ! 

" Feb. 24. — Received two letters this morning from 
tlie east, br nging ' glad tidings of great joy.' Revivals 
of religion are multiplying, and souls are flocking to 
tbe cross. At evening devotion, had a ' gracious rain.' 
O what intimate communion with the Father I T^^ 

17* 




_ ICttS IBDIB SURF dL 

inicili^esce of tfaereriTal, 

in Old 
to 
f oac of miT znodHi^ Iwotiwn \ 
prauesB raligioa. and I truat Im near to GSoi.' 

To & letter of Rev. Mr. H w indiroring I 

tiooaiB regard, and testily ing to the Mrmlng of Goi 
on Mr. Tariors labors among his people duna^ m 
laie risit. he thus replied : 

/^AnHrgr 37, I8M. 





'^ For to me too hare exercised an ofliee nol nnlike 
that of Panl to TimothT, whom he stfiaa hia son: 
and, Timothy-like, I traat your admonition and wise 
mstmctions will spreatiy tend to lead me in the way of 
daty. Indeed, I bless the kind Proridence that at fint 
directed me to your happy mantinn 

*' When I recount the goodnesa of God to me da- 
ring the past, and surrey his loring-kindness, now 
suntHmding me, and look beyond time, I have enoogk 
to sink my sooL into the depths of gratitade and lorau 
Glory to oor Giod for erer ; and let erery one say, 
amen ; for his mercy endoreth for ever. 

'^ Sometimes the question arises, ' What does! thoa 
here V But as oflen I hare found that I could not 
ffemore, for I could not see that it was the will of the 
Lord. But what exercises my mind the most, respect* 
ing my course, is the right distribution of time, i. e. 
hoar much to derote to each duty or study. Will yon 
9 me with your thon^ta oa xYa& voX^'^^tN.'l Bad 



/ 



< 



JAMES BBAOIERD TATLO^ jOl 

f 

a studeat, had /better attend to my / ^ ^ of 
preference to a longer attention to i/ ^ i^^ 

J not be 9aft in omitting, during i ^ I 

all kinds of reading and study, ea^.^ 
what is required in college ? Would I no..^ 
the better prepared for usefulness ? And would no* ^ ^ 
by an intimate knowledge of the Scriptures, with lore ' 
to Gk)d, be better prepared for heaven, if taken away 
m the midst of his preparation for the pulpit 7 I find 
that the Bible is more and more precious ; and my 
regret is, that I have so little time to read and study 
it I I regret too my ignorance of a nameless variety 
of subjects, which, rising to my view, stamp vacuvm 
upon my mind — but I want your reply. 

" O what a mercy that one need not be a Newton 
or a Locke to get to heaven. And where does piety 
display itself with more brilliancy than in the humble 
poor ? O for more of that wisdom that cometh from 
above ! Lord, what I know not teach thou me. 

*' Were it not for the arm of the Lord, where could 
a poor creature rest ? Where a minister ? Where a 
candidate for the ministry ? The Lord hide us in his 
.pavillion — shelter us under his wing, till all the storms 
of life be overpast. O how serene ! My soul this mo- 
ment anticipates the sweet repose : yes, I feel that the 
kingdom of God is set up in my heart, and that the 
King is on his throne. Help me to praise the Lord ! 
Are you not all captivated with our beloved ? He is 
the chiefest among ten thousand. 

^ To preach Jesus Christ and him crucified ! For 
Mm would I live, and in this alone would I die. I have 
no higher object; I can hare no higher. Do ^om t^ 
tiptmdf Lord, endow him with heaTeu\Y %\tt« — ^^cfc&x 



196 



XEMOim OP 



Belofwith the haly aU — make him an IsTaelite indeed, 

'^M him with the Spirit's power, and own him as one 
jf thy favored servants ! but, ere the anticipated hour, 

^ my prospect may be changed, and I obey the simi- 
mons, * Come up higher.' Happy thought ! There I 
expect to meet you — your companion — your children— 

. how then will we tell ? O the fire burns in my soul, 
and causes the ready tear to flow — ^will telL But with 
these thoughts I will bid you, as I was wont, good 
night, and bear us all before the throne of grace, 
sweetly anticipating the time when I shall once more 
greet you with my right hand and affectionate heart. 
Adieu, James B. Tatlob. 

" Again I resume my pen to thank you for your last 
communication. I hope this will find you all feasting 
on love divine. My soul was blessed while writing the 
above. I have, as usual, given you my thoughts as 
they flowed, for I have not time to think. May they be 
a blessing to your domestic circle, and excite your 
more earnest prayers in my behalf. I often think ot 
the scene on board the sloop. 

* How happy are they 
Who their Savior obey.* 

' The Lord was with us. I remember too the case 

of Mrs. J , and as I call it to mind now, my 

thoughts go forward to the bar of God. I ask. Where 
shall I see that friend stand at the judgment-day ? 
Shall I be a witness against her ? May she repent, 
and make Jesus her friend. With what pleasure did I 
read your testimony of the steadfastness of those two 
Jambs of the flock ! The Lord hold them still in his 
^nns. May tbey cling to the ou\^ t«iv)k%^ ^^ «vca\£ts. 



JAMBS BSAIHBRD TAYLOR. SOI 

But how alarming, my dear friend, is the situation of 
your dear congregation. Although not retrogressive, 
why do we not see those who profess religion with 
rapid pace march up the heavenly hill ? Alas for the 
ungodly and impenitent in the midst of you ! Is there 
not a cloud of wrath impending ? Ah, soon many un- 
converted souls may hear their doom — depart. 

" To Mrs. H. and Miss A. and S. give an affection- 
ate remembrance. J. B. T." 

*'Nassttu^HaU, JF^. 29, 1824. 
* To tha dear &iiiily I love, 

" Whence comes it that I have had no letter from 
any of you thus far this session ? It is true I am not 
worthy of your remembrance, yet your affectionate re- 
gard, I think, ought to have prompted the seeming 
inertness of my sisters during the frozen season. O, 
you know not of how much you may have deprived 
me, by not telling me of your affairs. But I have been 
happy ; yes, and although you have been silent, my 
voice has ascended on high for you all. And while I 
have breath, I cannot cease to pray for, and while I 
have being, to love you. 

'' The Lord still remembers me wiihin these walls. 
My health is as usual. The prospect of seeing you in 
April gives me pleasure : but I make no definite cal- 
culation. I know not what is for me and for my friends 
—I feel that I am not my own. Be not then disap- 
pomted ; whatever change takes place, sudden or look- 
ed for, it will be for our good. 

" With increased affection, 

"J. B. Tavloe." 

In the continuation of his journal we ixae^ ^^a\ 



202 MBMom or 

spirituality and derotedness of heart by which he wu 
80 habitually characterized. 

" March 7. — This has been a high day withmysooL 
The banner of Jesus over me has been lore. He has 
breathed on me, and given me a refreshing firom the 
Holy Ghost O, I love his visits ! How animating his 
presence ! It is my heaven below. Lord, enlarge the 
vessel, and give m^ more. I am a temple of the Holy 
Ghost, with a sweet prospect of heaven. 

" 14th. — ^Yesterday went to seek a retreat in the 
woods — a place whither I might resort to hold con- 
verse with God. I found such a place, and if permit* 
ted to resort thither, at morning, noon, or eventide, 
may I find the good Shepherd, as I was wont to find 
him under the well-remembered tree at L. 

*' Before God, and in the presence of angels, in 
secret, and in the great congregation, have I been 
sweetly visited this Sabbath day. 

* Thine earthly Sabbathi, Lord, I love.' 

" Finished reading the Revelation to-day, which I 
have done in course, and with a commentary. Much 
light has been scattered in my path, and love has 
flowed into my soul, through the word. My heart has 
experienced the truth of God — I have felt its power — 
not as an uncertain sound, but as the voice of the Al« 
mighty. ' Thy law b my delight. How love I thy 
testimonies.' 

*' 18th.—* The way of transgressors is hard,' not 

only with the unconverted, but with those who are 

bom again. So have I found it. ' Yielding to tempta* 

t/oa has brought leanness into m^ «ouL The Lord, 

B8 my corentmt Father, exercised t!i&« discvpUnet^l^^ 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 208 

covenant, and so visited my sins with stripes. ' Alas 
for me !' cried my dejected spirit — bowed down as a 
bulrush I went, seeking rest but finding none, from 
morning till night. At evening devotion my heart 
broke with contrition and hatred of sin. — Repented 
and made ^,full surrender to God, and felt the bless* 
edness of sins forgiven, and the restoration of life 
divine. 

" 20th. — Felt an indwelling God to-night. 

"28th. — Yesterday morning arose with a heavy 
load. ' If we sin, we have an advocate with the Fa- 
ther, Jesus Christ the righteous, who is the propitia- 
tion for our sins.' Upon this word my faith fastened. 
Also upon this, ' If we confess our sins, he is faithful 
and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from 
all unrighteousness.' But the whole day was spent 
without the sensible presence of God. I sought him 
whom my soul loveth, but found him not. At night 
too, upon my knees — reading my Bible — in meditation 
— visiting the sick and the people of God ; but all in 
vain — the glory had departed, and darkness covered 
my soul. Thus it was after my return to my Bethel. 
Being about to retire, I knew not but I must lie down 
under the frown of God, which I most justly experi- 
enced ; but I resolved upon one more effort, and went 
out of college with groans which could not be uttered. 
O the pressure that sunk me down ! I refused to be 
comforted till my Beloved should visit me * with the 
kisses of his mouth.' I made my way to a retired spot 
in agony of soul. There I seated myself, and attempted 

to sing, 

* Mercy, O thou Son of David !' 

''My mouth was stopped. I feltgu\\tY\i%lox^^V^" 



Gbd: prostnte before kim, wbk iqiliAed efo, : 

WitMNTd the fierw «f fky frmjm.* 

''It toached mj heart, and faith's Tiew of h 
broke the chain : the burden glided aS, and I letmn ^ 
giring glory to Gk>d. 

' ne deMrt thy teapfiatipM kMW, 



t 



" I laid me down and slept sweetly, as in the em- 
braces of my Belored, and arose this morning with a 
thankfol remembrance of God's mercy. 

" I praise the Lord for his discipline of the coTenant, 
as promised in the 89th Psalm, 30th yerse ; and that 
as the good Shepherd, he has restored a wandering 
sheep. 

'' Lord's day, April 4. — Yesterday morning had a 
rich blessing from aboTC. My mind has been turned 
towards the King of Zion for direction relative to my 
anticipated vacation. Heretofore I have made too many 
calculations of my own, which in many instances have 
been frustrated. Upon the Lord have I been able to 
lean while pleading with him for guidance in the way 
I should go, and that he would attend me as I go oat 
and come in. I have no plan, nor perhaps do I need 
one ; for the assurance seemed to come to me, ' What 
thou knowest not now, thou shah know hereafter.' 
But a larger blessing was communicated to me during 
this evening's devotion. I called to mind, with a 
grateful recollection, the refreshings the Lord had 
vonchsafed to me in my little Bethel here, some oi 
which I hMve recorded for future t«n\«^ ^ ^\iow.Vd I have 
oec 'he coming vacation «i5;«Aivt^^v^^ w^^tsv^ 



JAMES BRAIN ERD TAYLOR. 205 

mind, with a desire to kaow the will of the Lord, and 
again I was unburdened with, ' What thou knowest 
not now, thou shall know hereafter :' so I trust the 
Lord will make all plain before me, and lead me in a 
way in which he will be glorified and my soul greatly 
Denefited. The thought that I might possibly never 
return, led me to contemplate my heavenly home. 1 
knew not but the Master would call for me soon. I 
' groaned, being burdened ; not that I would be un* 
clothed, but clothed upon with my house which is from 
heaven.' For a moment Jesus seemed to hide his face. 
But this made way for a brighter vision of the Father 
through the Son ; and such a season of communion 
with my heavenly Father, with so much of the spirit 
of adoption, I think I never before experienced. With 
what melting of soul did I say, Abba, Father ! and 
the manifestation of the Son was with joy. I praise 
the Lord, the power of God was upon me. Afterwards 
I had an agonizing spirit of prayer for my friend L. P. 
such as I had not felt for som« time ; I knew not in- 
deed but I had lost it for ever. I am more encouraged 
for him. My only request is, that he may be converted. 
Lord, send salvation to his soul. 

" This visitation was indeed a crowning blessing ; 
and I shall doubtless remember this 4th of April as an 
uncommon season before the Lord. 

" Enjoyed a delightful season with a colored bro- 
ther this night. Happy soul ! I have found him a 
kindred spirit. We are all one in Christ Jesus. Al- 
though he cann-ot read, be can tell of wonders that 
God hath wrought for him. 

"April 8. — Left Princeton for New-YoTV. Y^x ^ 

i/ay or two previous my mind was iu dwVT\ts^> ^w^ ^ 

23 J. \\. t«>,\«t- 




206 MEMOIR or 

went mourning my heaviness. I inquired of the Lord 
if I should go tlvue on my way to my father^s house ? 
and laid my cause before the throne. The time soon 
arrived for the dismissal of my class, at which time 
the standing of each student was made known. Hav- 
ing found my standing to be No. 1, I repaired to my 
room, and once more looked to the Lord for hia dig* 
tinguishing love, with the strong feeling that earthly 
distinciiou cannot satisfy my heart's desire. Here, 
while I remembered the goodness of God during the 
past winter, in blessing me in soul and body, growth 
in grace, and success in my studies, the Sun of righ- 
teousness seemed to break through the cloud ; but I 
was interrupted by the approach of a friend. Recol- 
lecting the standing which had been given me by the 
faculty, I said to myself. What are Jionara? What is 
earthly applause 7 Ah, these are not my God. I saw 
their emptiness, and not only desired, but longed for 
his presence in whom my soul takes delight. The 
Lord bowed the heavens, and while I wrote vanity 
upon all things beside his love, he let drop sweetness 
into my soul, and I was blessed with a blessing that 
* maketh rich, and addeth no sorrow.' ' Bless the Lord. 

my soul.' 

*' Having repaired to my room for prayer, for the 
last time before my departure, 1 met my God, who put 
upon me anew the arm.or in which I stood fast. Thence 

1 went to lake leave of brother L. where the Lord asrain 
manifested himself to me in power. Before, and at 

he throne of grace with him, I was happy and exult- 
ed in Jehovah, who is my strength and my salvation. 
The season was a good one to brolKet L. too. May 
^Ii€ Lord abundantly bless \\im. 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 207 

" After parting with him, with maDy tears, I set out 
for New-Brunswick, whither, with the exception of 
two miles^ I journeyed on foot. By this means I was 
able to sa^e one dollar and twenty-five cents to aid a 
poor widow. How sweet is self-denial when practiced 
for growth in grace, or to relieve the distressed ! The 
Lord gave me a liberal heart ; I trust it has been en- 
larged of late. 

" Spent a night with my very dear friend Mr. D. 
and family, into whose mansion I was received with 
great cordiality. The Lord bless that household, and 
make it a household of faith and holiness. 

" Arrived in New-York on the 10th, and designed to 
leave for Middle Haddam in the afternoon, but was de- 
tained by advf^rse winds to receive a propitious gale 

from beyond the skies. At brother J 's, with my 

father and his seven sons, together with the beloved 
companions of brothers K. and J., the good Shepherd 
met us. We found it good to converse and pray to- 
gether. Yes, we had a blessing indeed. My soul, in 
recounting the favors of the past session, melted be- 
fore the Lord in gratitude and praise. I testified to 
them all concerning the loving-kindness of our God. 
They too were melted, and it was a precious season. 

* Tell me no more of earthly joy«.' 

" Arrived at Middle Haddam on the 14th, and was 
once more received into the bosom oi our dear house- 
hold. Thanks to the Lord for his goodness. While 
on my voyage I had but little opportunity for retire- 
ment. Before^ and upon my arrival, I Viad o^. W\v%«tvck% 
and tbirstiDg after r^hteousness, and xVie AaOt^ ^i>\^\ j 



208 M£MOIR OF 

me. I retired and held sweet communion with heaven. 
Soon the family was together, and we enjoyed a sea- 
son of prayer. God was with us and blessed us abund- 
antly. The Beloved spread his banner over us, and 
our souls were filled with love. Happy meeting ! How 
much happier when we meet above ! 

'^23d — This evening had a most fervent spirit of de 
votion at family worship. The Lord richly blessed us 
with his love. God is love. With what tenderness and 
simplicity the child of God calls upon him, when the 
spirit of prayer is poured out. I have found every 
season of family worship precious, but this was ex- 
ceedingly precious. Wrote cousin M. A. — The Lord 
speed her on her journey to the skies." 

This letter, with some slight omissions, here fol 
lows: 

" Be assured it would give me heart-felt satisfaction 
tu tender you my right hand, and again enjoy that 
christian communion in which we have so often de- 
lighted. 

" My dear cousin, what shall I say ? With you, 1 
presume, it has been joy and rejoicing all the day 
long. How delightfully, then, has time passed away ! 
How sweet have you found it to retire from the world 
and hold intercourse with heaven! And have you not 
had nearness of access in pleading for me ? O how 
it would afflict the soul of my cousin, should I tell har 
that coldness and deadness hav^ prevailed over me 
since I saw her ! Would you not exclaim, ' that my 
head were waters, and mine e^e^ ^ iowoX'^Axi qC tears^ 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 209 

that I might weep day and night for him !' But give 
praise to Him that sitteth upon the throne, I have spent 
the happiest winter of my life ; yes, my soul has been 
in health and prospered. And methinks you will say, 
'Bless the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endur- 
eth for ever.' 

" Happy, happy seasons have I experienced since 
last I gave you the parting hand. For the most part I 
have had the kingdom of heaven sensibly set up in 
my soul. Sometimes peace hath ruled my heart, some- 
times the overpowering love of God. The King has 
been and is now on the throne. I am crucified with 
Christ, nevertheless I live ; yet not I, but Christ liveth 
in me : and the life that I live in the flesh, I live by 
the faith of the Son of God, who loved me, and gave 
himself for me. 

'^ You will recollect the seasons we enjoyed when 
last together — seasons of prayer and praise. But, to 
me, none is more memorable than that enjoyed nearly 
two years ago at Mr. B.'s. Happy time ! glorious era ! 
for the Lord then and there accomplished for a poor 
sinner the good pleasure of his will. What a blessing 
It was ! not like the morning cloud and the early dew, 
bat permanent as his love. 

" To enumerate the renewals of his presence I have 
had since, would be impossible. Suffice it to say, his 
banner over me has been love. Into the love of God, 
as an ocean, have I sunk. Gospel measure has been 
bestowed, and I have been richly fed from the Mas- 
ter's table 

'' Does not my testimony encourage you to continue 
your supplication? I long to have the wiudo^^ oi 
heaven opened, and abundant blessings i^xxx^d^ ^orviw 

18* 



210 MEMOIR OP 

from on high. Let us then send up our prayers that 
brighter, and still brighter manifestations may be made 
to us, that as the shining light we may shine more 
and more to the perfect day. 

" Those among us who stand fast, seem to progress 
in their way. But, alas, how many there are who say 
Lord, Lord, but do not his commandments ! These 
things ought not so to be. Let us take warning and 
hold fast whereunto we have attained, that no one take 
0U7' crown. 

" Seeing that the time is at hand, should we not be 
faithful ? Our season for laying up treasure in heaven 
will soon be over ; our opportunities to warn the uxh 
penitent all be past, and prayer be turned into praise, 
hope into fruition, and time will be no longer. Bless- 
ed is that servant, who, at the coming of the Lord, 
shall be found faithful. He will receive all such unto 
himself, that where he is, there they may be also. 
Does not your soul long for the blessed abode ? ' To 
be with Christ is best.' I expect to see you in heaven 
there. The Lord has given me an earnest of the in- 
heritance — a foretaste of glory. On earth we draw 
near to God. In heaven we shall see Jesus as he is. 
Angels and saints will be our companions. Then shall 
we sing ' loud hallelujahs to the Lamb for ever and 
ever.' " 

The reader will observe that James B. Tay lor was 
now passing his college vacation among his friends ; 
but instead of wasting his precious time in seeking 
pleasure or in listless mactivity, as is the case with 
too many young men in such circumstances, the sea- 
son appears J from his letters and ^ounAi^toh&ve been 



JAMBS BRAINEBD 'fATLOR. 811 

one of constant and faithful labor. By day and night, 
* publicly, and from house to house,' and at various 
places — in Middle Haddam, Colchester, Bozrah, dec. 
did he exercise himself in exhorting, and praying, and 
conversing, and singing the songs of Zion ; endeavor- 
ing, by all the means he could employ, to diffuse his 
own spirit among professors of religion ; directing in- 
quiring souls to the Lamb of Grod ; rejoicing with 
young converts, and warning the careless and impeni- 
tent of their danger. And there is reason to believe 
that very many souls will bless God to all eternity 
for this college vacation of Mr. Taylor, which gave 
the time and opportunity for his labors among them. 
Even on his way back to Princeton, being driven by 
stress of weather to make a harbor at Sachem's Head, 
he went ashore and continued his faithful Ifibors. 

" Here, says he, I found work to do — visited from 
Jumse to 7iou8e, and in the evening held a meeting. 
Thank the Lord for another opportunity of sowing 
the good seed. May it be nurtured by the Holy Spirit.' 

" May 14. — Arrived at New-York, and spoke in a 
meeting at night with apparent effect. After I had re- 
tired, for some time sleep fled from me, while the con- 
dition of this city pressed upon my mind. Thought I, 
what stays the thunderbolts of Jehovah's wrath from 
this people ? O that salvation might visit them ! I en- 
deavored to be faithful in bearing testimony to the 
truth ; and I found that where the word of a King is, 
there is power. 

"20. — Last evenmg reached Princeton, and re- 
joice that the Lord has led me in pal\i« \VaX \ \lV\% 



212 MEMOIR OP 

thoQght of, when I had the assurance, ' What thou 
Knowest not now, thou shalt know hereafter? He is 
well led whom the Lord leadeth. Henceforward let 
me lean upon his arm and be guided by his Spirit. 

" 21. — At evening devotion sought him whom my 
soul loveth, and found him the chief among ten thou- 
sand, and altogether lovely. After reading the wordy 
walked out to my retreat^ away from the world, to 
hold intercourse with heaven. The intercourse was 
open and free — the communion sweet — while I sunk 
into nothing before the Lord, and melted into love and 
tenderness at the view of his abundant goodness. 
Praise the Lord, O my soul. May I ever find this place 
a Bethel. Walked to see T., and found him alivt. 
With him held communion. He seems, and I felt him 
to be, a man of God ; and though a colored man, be- 
loved of God, and by me. ' Every one that loveth him 
that begat, loveth him also that is begotten of him.' 
1 John, 5:1. I expect to talk to the colored people a( 
his house on Sunday evening next. May good be done. 

" Two weeks ago this night I was blessed of God 
with a powerful visitation of grace and love in the 
closet, at Mr. C.'s, in Colchester ; after which we had 
an interesting meeting for old professors, young con- 
verts, and anxious souls. They are now doubtless as- 
sembled, and enjoying Grod's blessing. I love them in 
our dear Lord. And do they not pray for my pros- 
perity ? Lord, hear prayer in my behalf. Salvation i 
The Lord will provide ! 

"How good is the Lord ! How shall I praise himl 
Eternity is not too long to utter all his praise. My 
wants are supplied, and I have a surplus. For soul and 
body provision is made, ^nd now \o C>^^^Vtkswft\ 



JkMES liRAlNEBD TAYLOR. 213 

am, I would commit my way — acknowledge him in all 
my paths, and pray that he would direct my steps. 

" 31. — Had at evening devotion an overflow of God's 
love, after an absence of the Comforter, grieved away 
by my rebellion. But upon my humble submission, 
with deep repentance, my Savior returned to my soul. 
Alas I why should I ever leave him ? Bui bless the 
Lord for the discipline of his covenant, and for the 
manifestations of his favor and love. Wrote to my 
friend £.>> 

''NassaU'HaU, Mt^ 31, 1824. 
•• Very dear E , 

" Having passed the day in my ordinary pursuits, 
and been abundantly refreshed at evening devotion, 1 
feel constrained to bless the Lord and take courage ; 
yes, I rejoice that another day has been numbered — 
another of the days of my pilgrimage b^low ; for the 
sweet prospect of heaven has gathered brightness, 
while my soul has melted with the love of God, let 
down in streams from the overflowing fountain. O my 
dear £., who is rich, and the Christian not rich? Who 
is happy, and the Christian not happy ? Let the world 
Lave the pleasures of the world ; but our souls cry 
out for God, for the living God, in whose presence 
below is joy unspeakable and full of glory. 

*' I can tell you how my mind was led this evenmg, 
and it may prove a blessing to you. I read the 2d 
chapter of Isaiah. The promise of prosperity to Zion, 
the mountain of the Lord's house, cheered my heart ; 
I could believe that ail nations shall flow unto it, and 
I anticipate the glorious day, though not ow e^\v\v^ v^ 
witness it, yet iu heaven to reioice w\\\\ \V eWx^ 



214 MEIIOIB OP 

triamphaDt. My soul cried out, Let Hit Lard akme 
be exalted I But the last Terse, which speaks of 'man 
whose breath is in his nostrils,' came with a riehei 
blessing. Thought I, soon my pilgrimage will end. 
Perchance these hands will twm^ with all this frame, 
lie motionless in the grare. The thought was sweet, 
fur niy spirit laid fast hold on ' the resurrection and 
the life.' In his name I could look up to God, and cry 
Abba, Father. My Father smiled — ^Jesns looked upon 
uut — the Spirit comforted me — my heart exulted: 
bless his name for ever ! Such a view of Jesus and his 
rross — his sufferings and death — his resurrection and 
ascension — and his reigning power, I have seldom 
experienced: 

* The hill efZioayieldf 

* A thouiand sacred tweets.* 

" My friend, let us beware : we are surrounded by 
the world. Having been brought unto liberty, let us 
n(it be entangled with the yoke of bondage. Let us 
give all our time to the Lord, by being diligent inbu- 
giness and fervent in spirit; and may what we have 
tu do be well done, 

" From the world we do not expect our joys. They 
flow from another source — a pure fountain. Let the 
world share but little of our mind— but little ! nay, we 
must not love the world at all. ^ Love not the world.' 
I believe you do not love the world — you delight in 
things heavenly. May you watch, and keep your gar- 
ments unspotted from the world ; and hold fast where- 
untn thou hast attained, and show out of a godly cnn- 
I that your citizenship and treasure are above. 
iether your days be feNv ox mwi^ ^ ^\ ^^CW*. 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 215 

well : Gk)d will be glorified, and your soul happy for 
ever." 

A letter, dated Nassau-Hall, June 3, 1824, to Mr. 
and Mrs. L. and family, mentions some of the revi- 
vals of religion, in which our young friend took much 
delight, and labored with great success. 

* * * * ti Little did I think that an absence from 
college of six weeks would take place, without the 
pleasme of associating, for a short time at least, with 

those friends I so much esteem at M : but so it 

lias been. The six weeks have gone by, and you have 
fared, in this respect, as other circles of friends else- 
where. If you should ask me why, I have to answer 
that Providence detained me. 

" When I left Princeton, and knew not whither the 
Lord would lead me, to him I committed every thing, 
with the assurance that what I knew not then I should 
know afterwards. And be assured I was led in a way 
I had little thought of— a way which has been at the 
same time both pleasant and profitable. Imagine me 
going from house to house, and in public, warning tne 
impenitent to fiee from the wrath to come : sometimes 
in one place, sometimes in another, bearing testimony 
to the truth — seeing Christians alive in the cause of 
God, converts exulting, and sinners weeping. 

'* I was located some time in Colchester, where, 
within six months, upwards of four hundred were 
hopefully born again. Were I with you, I could tell 
you of happy times in which the Lord blessed my soul 
abundantly— I could tell you of seasons wl\^\i\.Vi^^^^ 
p)e of God appeared to be refreshed {roin. \vvs ^xe^«wc,^t. 



216 MEMOIR OP 

The Lord is still doing wonders in Connecticut : not 
only by scores, but by hundreds, are sinners flockin;^ 
to Christ. In Millington they number upwards ot 
one hundred,' East Haddam, two hundred andjifty; 
Old Haddam, seventy. North Lyme and Gilead were 
witnessing the commencement of a gracious work; 
and yesterday I heard of another place — Meriden^ 
twenty miles from Old Haddam, where the work had 
begun^ In Hartford county, about a year since, there 
were about three hundred souls gathered in. But why 
speak of places at a distance ? How is it at home, and 
ill your own hearts ? Are you not encouraged ? We 
should indeed bless the Lord and take courage. ' 
that men would praise the Lord for his goodness, and 
for his wonderful works to the children of men !' 

^^ Since my return, the good Shepherd has fed me 
in green pastures, and led me beside the still waters." 

How the ever-active benevolence and zeal of Mr. 
Taylor were continually manifesting themselves, may 
be seen in every thing he wrote : but perhaps in no- 
thing more strikingly than in the following letter : 

" yasmu-Hall, June 6, 1834. 
AfTRctionate nnd endeared Parents, 

" Your son is yet alive, and still Vlie happy recipi- 
ent of grace and love divine. You have doubtless had 
an account of our voyage to N. Y. which was rather 
long ; but perhaps the Lord meant it for good. In due 
time I arrived at Princeton, and found new cause for 
{gratitude and praise to our heavenly benefactor. 
'' Often have I recurred to the slate of our family, 
and the /amilies of MiddkHadOi^m, ?\Tie^W^x.^^>a.^ 




JABIBS BRAINEBD TAYLOR. 217 

And I have inquired with myself of their conditions- 
how are they 1 You recollect the pleasing prospect 
among professors when I hade you farewell. I was 
much encouraged; and still entertain the pleasing 
hope that new fire has been enkindled ; and that what 
we then enjoyed was only the harbinger of good things 
to that people. As the Sabbath morning returns, I 
think of my father's house, and imagine an assembly 
of the neighbors all uniting in songs of praise, and in 
earnest supplication for God's rich blessing. When 
Friday evening arrives, I think of the appointed meet- 
ing for the people of God. And how cheering the 
thought that you have met with Jesus in your social 
assemblies, in your closets, and in the great congrega- 
tion. 

'^ I trust I have not been imagining a vain thing. 
May you go on then. Tell those who love our Lord, 
that I bid them God speed. And as the time to do 
much for God has come, they have need to put forth 
their united effort for the accomplishment of the great- 
est good. There is yet remaining very w/uch land to 
be possessed. And will they not go up and possess 
all the land ? Alas I how many among you know 
not God ! How many prayerless families ! How many 
m which no one soul professes hope ! And can one 
professor of religion stand still and see souls perish- 
ing without an effort to save them ? Can one lover of 
Jesus refrain night or day from praying and mourning 
in secret over such desolations ? Shall one be found 
idle when so much is to be done ? Shall one be sleep- 
ing at his post when the enemy stands thick around 1 
Shall all heaven be engaged to rescue svckXieT^ ^xcjvsl 
going down to the pit, and shall tlie d\se\v\ea ^^ ^^^^^ 



218 VBiioiB or 

who died and now reigns — shall the disciples of Jesoa 
let sinners sink to hell ? It most not he. I hope bet- 
ter things of my brethren. Their exertions, I trast 
will not only continue, but increase ; and increasing, 
they will gather strength. O, be not weary in well- 
doing, and be determined to die in. the eaii8e--die, 
doing the will of our Father in heaven t Aurfdst other 
thoughts, 1 have often reflected on thecondhkm of my 
relations and friends. How delightftil to remember 
that I have a father and mother, paienta most dear, 
that love the Lord ! 

'* While on my mother's side many have been 
brought to experience the same love, the thought has 
occurred, how few on my father's side ! Not only to 
you, but to me also, this is a painful subject. During 
last winter my mind was much interested in their be- 
half, which drew forth many earnest supplications. 
Is it not truly affecting ? I have tried to put myself in 
the place of my father, and to inquiry, what if my bro- 
thers and sisters were without hope, and destitute of 
vital godliness ? But, while your offspring have sub- 
mitted to Christ, you have to mourn over the offspring 
of your departed father, our beloved grand-parent 
And do not your eyes run down with tears 1 Does 
not your heart oftentimes break within you, when you 
remember that those brothers and sisters are out of 
Christ ? But what can be done for them ? From me 
they are all far away. From you, with^ne exception, 
they are all at a distance. But still something can be 
done. One thing we can do. Let me suggest that our 
united supplications ascend to God, in good earnest, 
for the sal ration of their souls. Hitherto I have not 
prayed for them as I ought lo Yia^e doiift\ «sl^\ ^^^^r 



JAMES BRAINEEO TAYLOR. 210 

der that it has been thus with me. Shall we then, all 
of us, our whole family, awake and plead for them? 
Who will say nay ? Not one. Why may not salva- 
tion visit them and their houses ? Shall we on each 
Monday, then, remember ihem particularly 7 and i^i 
our devotions continually ? I need not wait your re- 
ply ; the suggestion is enough to interest your feel- 
ings ; and I hope a spirit of prayer will be poured out 
upon us, so that we shall wrestle and prevail. Y/hat 
we do, must be done quickly." 

To his friend Mr. D. he wrote, on the 12th of June, 
a long letter, from which we copy the following pas- 
sage, as meriting the practical regard of all, and espe- 
cially those followers of Jesus Christ, to whose stew- 
ardship he has committed much of the wealth of this 
world. 

" We look around and find that very much yet re- 
mains to be done for the conversion of sinners to God. 
And this should occupy us coniinually. How shall it 
be accomplished ? At once we perceive that a faith* 
ful ministry is the great means of bringing sinners to 
Christ. Should this be an educated ministry ? We 
know that an ignorant ministry is not sanctioned by 
the word of God. To be able to teach, one must be 
taught ; and to such as are able to teach, this ministry 
must be committed. But how shall they be taught ? 
Do not our theological seminaries afford the best 
means for training men for this work ? But how are 
those to be supported who would thus prepare to serve 
God in the Gospel of his dear Soni Het^ \\\^xi\i>Jckfe 
point: if it be right to educate men for t\ie \ic\^ <2S!lv5.^\ 



S20 MBMnor 



if many are * called of God, as was Aaron,' to prepare 
for this office, and are uoable to defray the expenses 
attendant upon snch a course, what must be done ? It i 
is true, ' the earth is the Lord's, and the fullness there- 
of ;' biu of ail which is his own^ he places mutch im 
the hands ofmen^ to afford thens^ an oppcrhmiijf of 
showing Iheir benevolence to the woM, It requires 
about 9150 to support a young man at one of our se- 
minaries. $2,500, at six per cent would produce this 
amount. 

*' The time is coming when we shall be no more. 
But if, through our instrumentality, an object of this 
kind be accomplished before we go hence, when we 
are beyond the reach of doing good below, a scholar- 
i^ip will be the means of qualifying men for the yine- 
yard of the Lord ; and, while we sleep in the dost, 
heralds of the cross * * shall go through the land — 
sound the Gospel trump^give the alarm to thousands, 
and be the means, doubtless, of winning multitudes to 
Christ. O what a field here for exertion on our part ! 
And if ever to commence, shall we not begin now 7 
In this way, one may more efiectually preach the GrOS« 
pel than he could were he to live a thmtsand years. 
And let him know, that he which converteth a sinner 
from the error of his ways, shall save a soul from 
death, and hide a multitude of sins. How many to 
be converted I How few to turn them from the error 
of their ways] Shall we stand idle ? While the Mas- 
ter waiteth let us up and serve him." 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 881 

To Miss W . 

''PnnceUm^ June 20, 1824. 

" Your friend is yet in the land of the living, to 
praise the Lord. Indeed, who should praise the Lord, 
and I not praise him ? Who should love him, and I 
not love him V I who was once among the rebellious, 
as a sheep going astray, but who have been turned 
unto the Shepherd and Bishop of our souls. 

"Smce I bade you farewell and left your happy 
mansion, the good Shepherd has watched over me, 
and fed me richly. From time to time my soul has 
been refreshed by the Holy Ghost ; and I have felt, 
and felt powerfully, an indwelling God. This day at 
evening I had an unction from the Holy One, The 
communion with the Father, and with his Son Jesus 
Christ, was sweet. And how sweet the savor that re- 
mains. The peace of God rules in my heart. Like a 
river it flows through the soul/rom God to God again. 
A mystery this to the ungodly, but known well to you 
and to all who love God ; yes, to all who love God. 
People may talk about loving God, having his Spirit, 
9nd yet not feeling it. But to me there seems an in- 
consistency here ; for methinks that those who love 
God, will have his Spirit as a rejiner^s Jire and as a 
purifier of silver moving upon their souls. And where 
the Spirit moves, it Jires — kindles up the graces of the 
Spirit — inflames the afiections, and produces the triod 
gold of holy love, peace, and joy. As the soul sinks 
into the love of God, it sinks into humility, which is 
accompanied with unceasing prayer and thauks^lviii^. 
This is what I hare ezperiencea-v'QoOL^^ precvvui^ 

19* 



222 MEMOIR OP 

gift^ and bestowed in gracious answer to my prayers. 
Not unto me, but to Grod be all the glory for ever. 
What a consolation that there are tho^e who can tes* 
tify the same things, havmg enjoyed the same or 
greater manifestations of the love of Gk>d to their 
once sifirbaund souls, but who are now brought into 
the liberty of the children of God. O that there were 
an Jioat, 

*^ But, my dear friend, professors of religion, for the 
most part, love the world too much. Having so much 
of the love of the world in their hearts, they have not 
room for the love of Grod. Rather than be adorned 
with ' a meek and quiet spirit,' they prefer the orna- 
ments conformable with fashion. Rather than walk 
humbly and near the Savior, they choose to walk in a 
vain show with a frovd heart Rather than be in 
their closets mourning over their awful departure 
from God, and the desolations of Zion, they content 
themselves with a cold, heartless recital of their dead- 
ness, which becomes so stale a story that I am often 
discouraged, and in their behalf fear that their condi- 
tion will never be bettered. Is it not so ? I am eon- 
siderably in the world — you much more. I witness 
much upon which I write, vanity, while I listen to the 
vain and worldly conversation of professors of reli- 
gion. I say, when I hear the expressions of their ad- 
miration of the fashions and splendors of the world, 
how can I refrain from exclaimmg, ^How dwelleth the 
love of God in themP They talk of the things that 
give them pleasure, but say nothing of the work of 
grace in their souls. What think you of such ? Have 
they a name to live ? And are they alive ? Themselves 
belnsr judges, they must say, No. 'W\v^x «acvxV 'Csa 



JAMES BRAIKERD TAYLOR. 223 

Scriptures 1 ' Wo to them that are at ease in Zion.' 
^ Love not the world, nor the things of the world.' To 
the soul that is elevated to God, there are nobler pur- 
suits than these phantoms ; higher contemplations than 
earth's productions. Does not your heart find it so ? 

'* But of the young ladies. Have they contmued, 
and do they still continue, unreconciled to Grod? 
Miss W. what will the end of these things be? I 
doubt not they share your afiectionate expostulations 
and prayers. It is true they are in the morning of life, 
and, conscious of this, it may be often suggested that 
when years shall have rolled away they will make 
their peace with God. I doubt not that many now in 
hell had the same suggestion, and yielding to it, in 
some unexpected hour their lives were taken away. 
Let us contemplate one of your young ladies deferring 
this important work for years ; say till she come to 
the verge of life. Then she is taken ill. She had en- 
joyed the pleasures of the world ; but now, sick, aAd 
with the prospect of soon exchanging time for eter- 
nity, how pallid that once blooming countenance ! hew 
emaciated that once healthy, beauteous form ! And 
now we hear uttered in thrilling agony, ' I have bar- 
tered away a life of piety for a life of unsatisfying 
pleasures ! Instead of the smiles of God as my hea- 
venly Father, I have to bear his frowns. My sin ! Ah, 
my sin is my own folly ! Of sin I was often warned, 
often prayed for, often wept over ; but my heart har- 
dened under reproof. Ah, where am I now ? Friends 
weep around, but they cannot help me. Soon this fast 
decaying frame will sink into the grave. But my soul ! 
My 8oul! My soul is damned for evex? \% Sx ^<^.^'i&^ 
ihen, to delay this great concern tiW X\i«a'\ \%Sx^%Sft 



224 MEMOIR OF 

to delay it a day? Will they not resolve to securt 
their salvation this moment ? It is, yes, it is import 
tant. To open, the way of life to man, heaven's darling 
Son left the glory which he had with the Father ; he 
suffered, groaned, hied, and died for sinners. O that 
their hearts' would melt — would hreak with hum hie 
penitence, and by faith lay hold on this Savior and 
be saved." 

Within the month following we find many mte- 
resting records in Mr. Taylor's journal, of his commu- 
liion with God, and his labors and prayers for the con- 
version of sinners, and his visits and efforts to com- 
fort the afflicted, to prepare the dying for death, and 
the living to live to the glory of God. 

"June 27. — The morning succeeding found me 
shorn of my strength; but at evening devotion I sunk 
at the feet of Jesus, and, Mary-like, bathed them with 
tears of humble contrition. My soul again exulted in 
God. This prepared me for the worship of the sanc- 
tuary. 1 carried the King of Zion enthroned in my 
heart to the temple where he held his court. My soul 
melted there again. Heard Mr. Summerfield — the se- 
cret of whose popularity, I think, lies much in his holi- 
ness of heart. He has had a deep experience in divine 
things, and doubtless knows, from day to day, what 
it is to have his lips touched with hallowed fire. 

" Sabbath, July 11. — Have found this to be of a 

Truth the Lord's day, for the Sabbath's Lord has been 

near. For a few days past I have had less enjoyment 

fhan usual. The cause is obvious : I grieved the Holy 

JSpirit the night after the last poYrei^u\\Aft^?\\i^^\Ofc^^ 



JAMES BRAntEHD TAYLOR. > 22f^ 

was five days ago. What a mercy that myliackslidiiig 
has been heaald ! Bless the Lord for the healing balm-* 
for the good Physician. 

" As I knelt in my usual place, the thought arose, 
this may be the last time I shall ever pray. My soul 
was hungering for the bread of life, and faith seemed 
almost ready to lay hold on a blessing. My heart soon 
melted into penitence, and tears ran down my eyes. 
Had abasing views of myself, and exalted views of 
God, as he is in himself, and in his relation to fallen 
man in general, and to his children particularly. My 
Father smiled, my soul was refreshed, and I could 
once more rejoice. O the liberty of the children of 
God ! Had a peculiar and before unknown view oi 
myself as a candidate for the holy ministry. Rather 
than not have the approbation of Jesus, and the pre« 
sence of Jesus — rather than not be taught of him, let • 
my other qualifications be what they may, I would 
cease to pursue this object. Wherever I go, let him go 
with me ; for through Christ strengthening me, I can 
do and bear all things." 

To Rev. C. H . 

«< NasaaurHaU, July 20, 1894. 

" James, a servant of Jesus Christ, to his beloved 
brother Charles, now teaching publicly, and from 
house to house, testifying to every man repentance to- 
wards God, and faith in our Lord Jesus Christ. May 
great grace, mercy, and peace from ^ Grod our Father, 
and from our Lord Jesus Christ, be multiplied unto 
you. And the very God of peace sanctify you wholly , 
and I pray God your whole spirit, and ^o\x\^%?cA\^<^^')^ 
be preserved blameless unto the comVu^ o^ ovxx Visss'^ 



226 

JesQs Christ. Faithful is he that calleUi yon, who also 
will do it.* 

"My dear brother, I address you from my 'Be- 
thesda.' I say Bethesda, because this little room has 
so of tea been a house of mercy to me, once lame and 
halt, weary and heavy iaden. 

" Hither, shut out from the world, have I resorted : 
sought, found, and delighted in the Beloved. I might 
call it PUgMs top, but it is more, because of the 
manifestations of the Son of God to the most un- 
worthy. A heavenly land has opened to my view. 
Through faith^s vision earth has receded, and the 
soul has risen and entered the holy city — communed 
with saints and angels — sat down at the feet of Jesus, 
and sung hallelujahs to the Lamb. 

" My brother, 1 would not intrude upon you, but the 
love of Christ constraineth me. I love you because 
you love the Savior and his cause. 1 love you, and 
therefore write ; and I hope that, for Christ's sake, this 
epistle may come to you with a blessing. 

" 1 might tell you of the gracious visitations of Grod's 
love to me, from time to time ; how happy in commu- 
nion with my Savior — how resigned to his will — of the 
sweet prospects of heaven and glory that have opened 
to my soul. But you would hear of the prosperity of 
Zion in the land of our fathers. 

" After reaching Middle Had dam last April, I en- 
tered upon what 1 thought .would be a pleasant route, 
to visit those places where the Holy Spirit had recent- 
ly showered down a gracious rain. But the Lord hin- 
dered me. I stopped at Colchester, where my time was 
to /nyself^and the last day will tell whether to others 
ornot — spent profitably. You can \m^%\\ife \TL^\aX 



JAMES BRAIMEBD TATLOB. 227 

way I was employed in the midst of the impenitent, 
the awakened, the anxious, young converts, and en- 
gaged Christians. But how is it with your people ? 
Is the church awake ? Are your elders alive to the best 
interests of Zion ? Are professors wrestling in secret 
for the ingathering of souls ? Is there a general mourn- 
ing, with you, over the desolations of the church ? If 
not, what shall the end of these things be ? O, how it 
would animate your heart to see Christians alert — to 
hear sinners ery for mercy — to see them submitting to 
God — owning the Savior — and uniting themselves to 
the Lord's people. Be encouraged, for who can tell 
but a multitude of sinners may soon become, under 
your ministry, obedient to the faith. As it is your duty 
to labor for it, so it is your duty and privilege to look 
for it — to watch for it, more than they that watch for 
the morning. 

" I have become entirely contented with my present 
course. The good Shepherd scatters rich food as I tra- 
vel in the wilderness. My heart, too, is still, and mor« 
than ever set upon the work of the ministry. To this 
one object I would have every acquisition tend. In 
the accomplishment of this one thing I would live; 
when it is done I would die ; for heaven is the home 
of God's children. I think I am willing to do the will 
of God. When he commands I would obey ; when he 
calls I would run. 

" Another watchman has fallen from the walls of 
Zion, to rise, we trust, to the city of our God. Mr. 
Whelpley is dead. When shall it be said brother H. 
k dead — when shall it be said of me, * He is gone V 
What I say unto you, I say unto all^ ualciil kcL^«' 



228 MEMOIR 01^ 

fectioDate remembrance to Mrs. H., and believe me, 
yours in the best bonds, 

" Jame6 B. Taylob." 

Mr. Taylor, who labored to be an uncommon Chria- 
tian, seems to have excelled in a prevailing desire 
that Christians, in all their relations, should do their 
duty, and have large experience of the work of grace 
in their own souls. To a friend, in prospect of her 
marriage, he wrote : 

* "It u probable you will be connected with Mr. 
% Does he grow in grace ? My friend, whatever 



else you leave unlooked after, see veil to this ; see well 
to this ; as you value his usefulness, as you value your 
own and his happiness. I do not command ; I exhort; 
O be faithful— kindly faithful. If he be a man of God, 
he will ever thank you ; he will love you the more for 
such faithfulness. Talk much and pointedly upon €a> 
perimental godliness." 

To one from whom he had received a friendly gift, 
he wrote : 

" In heaven, I have not the least doubt you will re 
joice for helping one on his way to the ministry. Help 
by your prayers, and thus speed me on my way." 

On the subject of fasting, (a duty too little prac- 
ticed in the church, and sometimes abused to their in- 
jury, by persons of much piety, but of a morbid tem- 

perameDt,) Mr. Taylor made, about this time, the fol' 

lowing note in his journal ; 



lA&lES BRAIN BRD TAYLOK. S89 

" A day of abstinence. Heretofore I have practiced 
fasting on a particular day, for more than two years ; 
and have found some of the seasons greatly beneficial. 
But fasting, connected with my usual studies, has 
greatly debilitated my body, and left me generally 
with a severe headache, which has led me to the con- 
clusion that, under existing circumstances, it is not 
my duty to abstain altogether?^ 

This conclusion, which was certainly wise, shows, 
among many other things, that Mr. Taylor's high re- 
ligious feelings, in which perhaps he surpassed almost 
all persons of his day, were connected with a sound 
mind and a sober consideration of duty. No man was 
farther removed from gloomy austerity, or relied less 
upon either his feelings or duties. The evidence of 
this will be apparent to every attentive reader, as it 
will bl found in the fact, that in his highest exercises 
of devotion, when his whole soul was filled with the 
love of God, and his countenance made luminous with 
the holy fire that burnt within, he at the same time 
entertained the most humbling views of himself, as a 
sinner saved by grace ; and was ever ready to say, in 
the language of Paul, " by the grace of Gkkl, I am 
what I am." 

How he acknowledged the hand of God in all his 
ways — referred all events to divine providence, and re- 
lied upon the grace of God, may be seen in the follow- 
ing extracts from his journal : 

" Aug. 7, 1824.—- Met with a disappomttnent in not 

▼lisiting my friends at L . It ^aa «L\.\.«tL^^^^>2^ 

M blegsiDg, and I concluded it -wo^d fttiW^V^ ^OXo-^^ 

2Q i.'ft.t^sv* 



230 MGMOIR OP 

with a train of blessings. The disappointment was 
unexpected, and from a source, too, that was calcula* 
ted to excite strong feeling. But grace abounded. 

" 8th. — Abundant reason to bless God for my deten- 
tion yesterday. Last evening had an opening for doing 
good, and eternity may show some fruit. Visited seve- 
ral sick persons, and at every place endeavored to 
speak faithfully and boldly for God, and afterwards at 
a meeting. 

'* 9th. — This night, glory to our Grod, had a power- 
ful visitation from above — it is past telling — and it was 
to prepare me to stand up for God. This I did, and 
spoke boldly ; the word was attended with power, and 
the Spirit of power and holiness rested on me. Sin- 
ners trembled — backsliders too^and the engaged child 
of God exulted. Had I not been detained, where were 
all that has come upon me and been communicated 
through me since the 7th. Appointed another Wet- 
ing at the request of the people. 

"11th.— * Who will take the first honor?' *Did 
ne do well V &c. In this season of examination ran 
through the crowd ; but grace so gained the victory 
over me as to enable me to look down upon these 
meaner things, and say, these are not my God. No : 
the honor from above I seek, and to my studies let me 
go, as to a duty for Christ's sake, and for the honor 
of the Gospel. 

" Felt a strong attachment to the word of God ; and 
over that word, as the legacy of my Friend on high, I 
cherished my attachment, my soul sunk low at the feet 
of Jesus, and I drank from the fountain. 

'^ WeDt out and visited the sick. I Vo^e m^ Master 
and my Maater'a work. I loye to comioxWiSA^^o'^^ft-* 



JAMEa BRAINERD TAYLOR. 231 

I love to talk to sinners. Lord, help. Lord, teach thou 
me, and bless me more and more. I can look upon 
this day's blessings as arising from my detention last 
Saturday, and it will probably prove, in time to come, 
a link in the chain of providence not to be told. I«et 
me look at providence in small as well as great things, 
and wonder and adore. 

** 25th. — The chain is gathering links— little did 1 
think that so much depended upon my disappointment 
on the 7th. Last Monday evening attended the ap- 
pointed meeting, and had a refreshing time. The peo- 
ple of God testified that it was heaven to be there. 
Did not feel so happy myself, but had liberty to speak 
a word in season to the people. 

" HoAv exalted the privilege to help forward the chil- 
dren of God heavenward — even Ethiopia's degraded 
children. O that they may be seen all of them stretch- 
ing forth the hand unto God. 

" Find employment in visiting the sick poor. Called 
to see a colored woman. She is happy in God, in the 
prospect of death. Had an opportunity to converse 
with a beggar ; prayed with him, and presented him 
with a testament and the last sixpence I had in my 
pocket. The thought arose, give this away, and what 
will you do to-morrow ? But stay : 

' My wants to-day are aU supplied, 
To-morrow, it may be said, he died.* 

" O for more contidence in God — God is able to 
make all grace abound towards you; ' that you, always 
having all sufficiency in all things, may abound to 
every good wot}[J^ 2 Cor. 9 : 8. 

''27tb.—'A door opened for me to exetlni'^*^^^^*^ '^ 



232 MEMOIR or 

poor child of God — put in two cents, the very last mite 
I supposed I had — the word of God came, ' Give, and 
it shall be given unto you ' — went out and begged more 
and with this and a needed garment went as the al* 
moner of heaven, and delivered up the contribution. 
' Naked, and ye clothed me.' 

" 28th. — Providence seems to open the door still 
wider for my prospective usefulness among the poor ; 
and the question arose, shall I live in Princeton fiv^ 
years, and Princeton be none the better for ma 7 * 

" A new plan opened to my mind, upon the prose^ 
cution of which I entered to-night. Open, Lord, my 
eyes — I am tired of waiting for others ; there are la* 
borers enough all around, but they don't come into the 
vineyard to work. Let me be up and doing constantly, 
faithfully, firmly. 

" Opened a small trunk, and unexpectedly found 
ninepence. Is not this Gospel measure 1 If a mer- 
chant had $2000 at evening, and gave it away, and 
the next day should find him in possession of $9000^ 
would he not consider it an increase running over? 
Mine is as much in proportion, and how often is abun- 
dance poured into my hand !" 

To his christian sister Miss W. of New- York, in 
communion with whom he took much delight, he wrote 
on the 25th as follows : 

" O Miss W. what a truth ! ' God is love ;' and I 

feel the indescribable weight of this truth restmg upon 

my soul. To the world and to the formalist, I know, 

indeed, that these are unmeaiiin^ words; but my 

friend can rejoice that God \aA *uavatx%^v\i^>Ksva^- 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 238 

ledge of this hidden mystery to me, and is building 
me up in faith and holiness. Holiness! O what 
charms in the very word ! God is holy — angels are 
holy — saints in glory are holy — and ' without holiness 
no one shall see the Lord.' O to be more like our 
blessed Jesus — more like God ! 

" I still address you from my Bethesda — a house of 
mercy to the most unworthy. My study is about five 
feet square ; and yet I can sing, 

* This little room, for me designed, 
Suits as well my easy mind 
As palaces of kings.' 

'^ I hope God is training me for something ; I trust 
It is either to labor for him on earth, or to take me to 
himself. To labor for him now is sweet, increasingly 
sweet ; and O, he is with me ! At home and abroad 
Jesus stands by me — the Spirit comforts me — miy Fa- 
ther smiles — so, 

* Tell me no more of earthly toys, 

Of sinful mirth and carnal joys, 

The things I loved before.' 

" Let the world have these. Let the professor of 
religion who indulges in them, wish me to join him : 
but God forbid ! for, were I to indulge, even in what 
by some are called innocent pleasures, my spiritual 
joys would be gone. And for this I am spoken of, and 
that too by professors of the religion of Jesus. But 
what is it to be judged of man's judgment ? My wit- 
ness and record are on high. By cens\inii« ^otxJtCva^xJttK^ 
censure me for doing the work o£ tke 1»ot^. ^V'^ «V^w»» 

20* 



2H MEMOIR or 

time I have tiom my college duties, I would xathet 
spend with the sick — the indigent ; and that too, to 
win souls. And my prospect for doing good is much 
greater in huts and smoky cabins, than in the draw- 
ing-rooms of rich and thoughtless worldlings. They 
are joined to their idols. O, pray that I may firmly 
and devotedly do the work of the Lord, caring neither 
for their contempt nor their applause; alike indiffe- 
rent to popularity and persecution. And may imr ef- 
forts be to turn men from ain to holiness, 

" Glory to our heavenly Father, for his rich grace 
through our Lord Jesus Christ. ' By grace are ye 
saved, through faith.' This is the way, the only way, 
of salvation. And it is a sweet way — the way of holi- 
ness — the way to heaven." 

To a female relative, for whom, as for all his rela- 
tions, Mr. Taylor's heart seemed ever to overflow with 
affection, he wrote an interesting letter, well calcula- 
ted to instruct and reprove those professors of religion 
who, like the creaking door upon its hinges, ever com- 
plain, and yet make no progress. 

" J^assavrHall, Aug. 28, 1824. 
«Dewr R , 

'' My soul blesses our heavenly Parent for the affec- 
tion I bear to you, both natural and christian. Instead 
of diminishing, it gathers strength ; and I trust it is to 
be perfected in a fairer clime. * 

" Having the same round of duties from day to day, 
you will readily conclude that I can have little news 
to communicate ; but there is a xl\em« to which our 
Aearts hare been attuned. WeWexV^^v^Nsxt— "^^ 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 235 

love his cause ! but whence is it that we have been 
turned to the Shepherd and Bishop of our souls 1 We 
love God because he first loved us. Here is the solu- 
tion of what would otherwise be an unfathomable 
depth, and for ever remain a mystery. 

" Having been extricated from the miry clay, and 
our feet set upon a rock, what manner of persons 
ought we to be in all holy conversation ! Surely as 
he who hath called us is holy, so ought we to be 
holy. 

" What are the signs of the times ? Is mttch said 
about religion, for and against it ? Where is the host 
that/^eZ, that talk, that live religion? Alas, the con- 
stant harping of professors of religion upon their for- 
mality, coldness, stupidity, want of life ! Why, in the 
name of my Master, are they not before Grod, on their 
knees, in their closets, mourning over their declen- 
sion ? They need not tell the world of their indiffe- 
rence. It is already too evident. And the world sees 
it with astonishment. The world knows it to their (I 
was going to say) damnation ! It is true : for sinners 
plead as their excuse, the ungodliness of professors. 

" May it be ours to walk worthy of our vocation. 
We owe, indeed, ten thousand talents to the Lord ; 
and I feel that I have nothing to pay. And after all I 
shall have done and can do, I am an unprofitable 
servant ; and can only say, 

n the chief of sinneri am, 
But Jesus died for me.j 

^ Surrounded as you are by multiplied cares, I pre- 
sume you steal away now and then ftota^W^v^V^^ 
4Hmrene with Qod in secret. If axi^ ^\iet^^ Hx. ^^ ^N^^ 



286 if£MoiB or 

God in secret, the soul must prosper; and there, if 
denied all things else, the child of God finds a Father, 
a Savior, a Comforter, a Friend, a Brother. May you 
find your retirements places and seasons of washing 
and renewing of the Holy Ghost. 

" How are all at 1 I have taken an interest m 

that people ; not because they are Episcopalians ; no 
more than I would .in Presbyterians, because they are 
tuch, but because some of them appeared to have the 
spirit of Christ. And I think I have been brought to 
this, to seek to have Christians more holy ; and sin- 
ners, yet unconverted, brought to Christ. Away with 
the prejudice of names ! away, for ever ! The child of 
God is my brother, my sister. The sinner, my fellow- 
sinner. The former let me love and serve, as of the 
household of faith : the latter, let me labor to bring, 
where we would he, at the feet of Jesus. And here at 
his feet we must lie, if on his throne we would sit 
down. 

" I might tell you that I have some pleasant retreats 
mto the huts aud smoky cabins of the poor of this re- 
gion. And there too, in some instances, piety in its 
most radiant form is seen to shine forth. I should like 
to have you at some of my little meetings. The chil- 
dren of the highest seem happy, and I am happy in 
doing them good. Thus let me live ; thus let its live« 
thus let us die. 

*' You have witnessed much of the bustle about La* 
fayette. He is a great man — worthy of esteem ! But 
in reading the accomit of his landing and reception 
m your city, I thought of our Jesus, the Son of Goct^ 
and jDquiredj if He should appear^ who would go our 
to meet him and help himl 'Wlio\ie\^^^Vvai^'ra<»!^ 



JAHE8 IBAIMERO TAYLOR. . 237 

tne land of Judea ? But his triumph was great. Let 
us strive to be goodJ^ 

To a beloved christian brother, who had recently 
visited a place where God was blessing the church 
with a glorious revival of religion, Mr. Taylor wrote 
a letter abounding with pointed interrogatories, such 
as every Christian should attentively consider, and 
especially when the tone of piety is low, and a state 
of backsliding appears in the church. 

" Sept. 1. — Having been in the midst of so powerful 
a work of God's Spirit, you have doubtless returned 
with an increased solicitude for the Zion with which 
you are so happily connected. Do you not find that 
it is the delight of your pastor to preach the word 
with all plainness ? How are you blessed in having 
an overseer so desirous of the welfare of souls ! And 
be assured, you cannot pray for him too much. The 
apostle said, ' Brethren, pray for us.' Could you fol- 
low your pastor, you would see that in all his labors 
his heart cries out, ' Brethren, pray for me.' 

'* Inquiring concerning the pastor naturally leads 
to inquire after the flock. How is it, then, with the 
sheep 1 How is it with you, my brother ? Instead of 
engagedness, you may have become cold. Have you 
eloped from those green pastures in which you were 
wont to feed ? Have you left those refreshing streams 
of which it was your delight to drink ? Ah ! what 
comparison do the gaudy weeds of the world bear to 
the sweet pasture which the good Shepherd has pro- 
vided ? And who would choose the t\iTb\x\fi\iX %vt«»ni% 
of Mease, in preference to ' the mt\\\ vi^x^t^'^ q>^ V 



838 MBMOU OF 

love ? But I hope better things of you : that you still 
walk with God, and follow the Lamb whithersoever 
he goeth. 

" Many sheep compose the flock with which you 
feed. Are they all in health? and do their souls pros- 
per? Do they feed contentedly and live healthfully? 
Ja a large flock, how often are some sick ; how many 
wander and go astray ! What dissatisfaction with 
themselves and all around them, arising from unfaith- 
fulness on their part to God, to their own souls, and 
the souls of their brethren ? 

" Were I with you at one of your little meetings, 
methinks I would ask my brethren, and say to each, 
Is it well with thee ? Is it well with thee ? As my 
soul rejoices in the prosperity of Zion, how would my 
praise awake at an answer in the affirmative ! How 
would I send forth my voice in words of exhortation 
to the brothers or sisters in a luke-warm state ! And 
I would ask, what profit is there in robbing God? 
What advantage in loving the world ? What peace 
in dishonoring the Prince of peace, by indulging in 
sin? For it is sin, soul-blinding sin — sin, soul-ha- 
rassing sin, beloved sin, soul-damning sin, that has 
veiled the Sun of righteousness ; that has sent fearful 
forebodings of wrath into the soul, and stamped coti" 
demnation where once was light — where once was 
peace, reconciliation, and heaven. Were my soul in 
such a condition, wbuld you not say to me, * Return, 
thou backslider, rove no longer ; seek the Lord with 
thy whole heart?' And I would say further, Look, 
precious soul, if thou hast ever had grace in thy heart, 
how art thou fallen ! Do you not feat a final removal 
<7//Ae candlestick from its place 1 O ^v^Xi^uot ^^^ 



JAMES BBAIMCRD TAYLOR. SS9 

your heavenly Father, no longer ; wound your Savior 
no more ; grieve not the Holy Spirit ; come and con- 
fess ; bow with penitence ; mourn with bitterness ; 
plead with faith ; procure pardon, peace, and holiness ; 
be determined to have no more to do with sinful con- 
formity to the world, cost what it may ; make no com- 
promise with self; have no league with Satan ; in a 
word, deny thyself, take up thy cross, and follow 
Christ ; then you will show to the world that Christ 
Jesus, as you profess, is all ; sinners will take warn- 
ing at your example and precept; saints will com- 
mune with you ; God will bless, and heaven finally 
receive your happy soul. Are convictions multiplied 
among you? Do sinners in Zion tremble ? 

" I have much reason to praise our heavenly Father 
that he hath kept me hitherto. He hath indeed made 
my little room a Bethesda to my soul. Grace, mercy, 
and peace have been multiplied unto me ; and I now 
bless the Lord and take courage for time to come. 
Having been blessed of God, it is our privilege — ^it is 
our duty — to look for greater blessings. From day to 
day may we be baptized with the Holy Ghost and with 
fire. The Lord send down his holy unction, and make 
us, more than ever, fit temples for himself to dwell in. 
Then we shall rejoice evermore, pray without ceas- 
ing, and in every thing give thanks. 

^^ My afiectionate salutations to the brethren. Far»- 
well. 

" James B. Tatlob.'' 



CHAPTER ▼. 
Seeand Yearim CgtUge, 

Mr. Taylor's fond afiectioii for his parents and 
friends cannot for a moment be called in question ; 
and yet, thoofh he had not enjoyed their soeiety for 
five j)^ six months, and was on his way to spend the 
college Tacation at home, when he arrived in New- 
York, ** and fomid,'' to nse his own words, ^ diings 

interesting under the labors of brother L , in the 

Rey. Mr. Patton's church, the pastor being absent and 
laborers needed, I, upon solicitation, joined brother 

L for a season. At the resurrection of the just it 

will be known how many hare been gathered in. On 
one evening thirteen expressed hope. The Lord bless 
the lambs of the flock." 

At the commencement of the college session we 
find the following entry in his journal: 

^* Last night the Lord gave me — I cannot express 
It — such an exercise as I never had before : a view of 
the demerit of sin that sunk me lower than the lowest. 
And yet my soul exulted in Grod. 

^ Thus have I begun. May I find my winter loca - 
tion better than ever before — ^my health and my all aie 
at God's disposal. 

" Nov. 14.— Upon a review of the past week, I find 
it fraught with loving kindness from the Lord. * Last 
evening bad a delightful seaEOn m T«ui«mh«xin^ the 
Jamba of the flock in Mi.P-'a t\wlTO\^Nn3i^^V«Il\ 



JAML3 BRAINEBD TAYLOR. 341 

used lo meet on Saturday evenings. I love them for 
the love they bear to Jesus, the Lamb of Grod. 

''At evening devotion had a singular exercise. 
While singing, my soul thirsted for a blessing. The 
thought suddenly entered my mind : ' If you neglect 
your tea you may obtain the blessing which you seek.' 
I inquired whence is this ? Is it from God, or from the 
devil ? But I concluded that the Lord's blessing came 
not by a purchase of mine, and therefore that h<could 
as well bless me then as afterwards ; and I determined 
to throw myself at his feet and seek his favor, and thus 
defeat the adversary who was ready to cheat me out 
of the blessing. My Father smiled upon me — the 
work of grace was deepened — and my soul fed on man- 
na from above." 

To pious students Mr. Taylor has left an illustrioua 
example which should for ever banish the idea that 
(he sad decline in the life and fervor of piety so often 
manifested in their college course, is necessary, or that 
It is impossible in such circumstances to live a dero* 
ted life, and make progress in religion. To a pioos 
family, to whom he frequently poured out ail his heart, 
after giving a delightful narrative of what the Lord 
was doing for his soul from day to day, he wrote : 

'^ Do not you rejoice that God has kept me hither- 
to ? With your rejoicing connect a doubling of your 
prayers that I may so live as to testify that the world 
is mistaken in the opinion, that Grod cannot be enjoyed 
in a course of study. If I do not grow in grace now^ 

when shall I ?" 

2^ 4."^i%^\«. 



i 



242 MEMOIR OP 

It is both delightful and instructive to oDserve that, 
while he was striving continually to grow in grace 
and in the knowledge of Christ, and so to let his light 
shine, that others, seeing his good works, might glorify 
his heavenly Father, he seemed almost as much en- 
gaged that others should walk worthy of Grod unto all 
pleasing. To a beloved friend he wrote, Nov. 30, 1824, 

" Has your soul been in health and prospered 1 I 
could wish to be near you and hear the reply. 

^' Did you ever question whether I have been truly 
converted 1 Perhaps you may have seen many things 
in me which might lead to such a conclusion ; but if 
not to this, to another, viz. that I could not love God 
much, or that I showed to the world an ungodly walk 
and conversation. Well, I am ready to acknowledge 
my errors ; will you point them out to me ? I will 
take it as the highest mark of your affection for me 
and love to the cause of Christ, if you will tell me 
plainly all that you may have seen amiss in me. And 
would you not wish your friends to do the same to 
you ? But rather than offend you, I would get down 
at your feet and say what I purpose to write. 

" My dear friend, for whom I have prayed, and 
groaned, and wept ; as before God and the Lord Jesus 
Christ, I must warn you. Do you say of what? 
Pause and think. Do you find nothiug out of the way ? 
What meaneth that lightness in your walk and con- 
versation ? Does it fit you for prayer in secret 7 Does 
it adorn the Christian ? Does it tell the world that 
70U love religion — that your thoughts are much on 
Cfod and heaven ? Does it slicw V\\bl\. v\i^ ^o>il is walk- 
ing with God— -that you maintam c\o^^ wA VcL^waax^ 



JAMES BRAINEBD TAYLOg* 243 

eommunion with God? This may he the last time I 
may he permitted to write to you. My hand may be 
in the grave : and I may now be too late — my friend 
may have died. If alive, bear with my faithfulness ; 
for it is in love, as I expect to meet you at the bar of 
Jesus Christ. What meaneth these things ? O, I urge 
you, I pray you — in Christ's stead, I beseech you to 
judge. But what saith the Scriptures? ^ Let every 
one that nameth the name of Christ depart from ini- 
quity.' Is it not iniquity to disobey God ? And it is 
by keeping his commandments we know that we are 
born of Grod and love him. The Savior says, ' If ye 
love me keep my commandments.' * As he that hath 
called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of con- 
versation. See then that yc walk circumspectly, not 
as fools, but as wise. Wo unto you that laugh now, 
for ye shall weep. Let your laughter be turned into 
mourning. Let not jesting nor foolish talking he once 
named among you. Let all bitterness^ and wrath^ and 
anger^ and clamor, and evil speaking, be put away 
from you with all maliceJ Thus, my dear friend, you 
see the will of the Lord concerning us. May I, and 
may you be freed from every unhallowed thought, 
word, and action, and put on, as the elect of God, 
bowels of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, 
mieekness^ long-suffering , but, above all things, put 
on charity — that the peace of God may rule in our 
hearts. 

" My friend, if you are not satisfied with your hope, 
rest not till God shall speak your sins forgiven, and 
you shall know that you are the Lord's. Come, let us 
set out afresh, examine ourselves, and rectify all that 
19 wrong. To do this, we must find out the wroi 



244 MEMOIR OP 

bring it before God, confess it, mourn over it, plead 
for Christ's sake, for pardon, and wait for salvation* 
Do you pray for me ; I will pray for you ; and let us 
strive to enter in at the strait gate." 

The reader has observed how pleasantly and in- 
structively the genuineness of Mr. Taylor's christian 
character, and the elevation and enlargement of his 
christian love have been exhibited in the fact, that his 
soul paused not at all at those barriers which sectari- 
anism has raised between the different denominations 
of Christ's disciples. Christ was the object of his af- 
fections ; and wherever he saw the spirit and image 
of his blessed Master, thither his heart flowed out. In 
the saints, the excellent of the earth, was his delight ; 
accordingly, we find much of his correspondence, in 
which glowed the purest flame of Christian love, was 
with those who bore names diflerent from his own. 
The following letter is of this description, and shows 
at the same time the regard he had to the word of 
God, as his infallible guide and instructor : 

^'Nassau HaU, Dec. 5, 18524. 

** Brethren beloved, 

" Does not the same afiection actuate us toward one 
another, that filled the soul of the apostle towards his 
brethren at Rome, when he said, * I would have you 
wise towards that which is good, and simple concern- 
ing evil?' How like this is our Savioi's precept, 'Be 
wise as serpents, and harmless as doves.' 

" While reading the other day the former passage 
In conaectioa with the context, 1 ikoxi^ht of my breth- 
^Now 1 beseech you,\)relY«eTi, m\«VV)wtmNAiv^ 



fdji^ 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 245 

cause divisions and offences, contrary^ to the doctrine 
which ye have learned, and avoid them. For they that 
are such serve not our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own 
belly ; and by good words and fair speeches deceive 
the hearts of the simple. For your obedience is come 
abroad unto all men. I am glad, therefore, on your be- 
half; but yet I would have you wise unto that which 
is good, and simple concerning evil. And the God of 
peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly.' 
With the apostle I add the prayer, * The grace of our 
Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.' 

"But whence this wisdom? What saith the word ? 
' The holy Scriptures are able to make you wise unto 
salvation, through faith which is in the Lord Jesus 
Christ.' Again, ^ The testimony of the Lord is sure, 
making wise the simple. How shall it be attained 1 
*The letter killeth, but the Spirit maketh alive.' How 
many read, and still are blind ! ^ But if any man'— any 
Presbyterian man, or any Church man, or any Metho- 
dist man, or Baptist man, or any other man, ^ lack wis- 
dom-, let him ask of Grod, who giveth to all men liberal- 
ly, and upbraid eth not, and it shall be given him.' 
Here then is the source, the word of God, accompanied 
by the Spirit of God illuminating the mind and work- 
ing powerfully in the soul. And the effect will be, 
wisdom that is profitable to direct, and the harmless- 
ness of the dove. 

"Let us appeal to the experience of those who can 
testify. But for the tnUh, the word of God, what know- 
ledge of salvation could we have ? But for the medium 
of access to God, the way of the sinner's return plainly 
marked out, who before us, or with\ia,'b\xX'wo\3\^<^\^^^^ 
benighted in heathen lands, feel aftei Oo^*mN^m'\ ^viX 

I 



346 MESKItB OP 

for the command, ' Repent,' who would ever thine of it ) 
And unless conyinced of sin, of righteousness, and of 
judgment, by the Spirit of God, who would be broken- 
hearted ? But for the Lamb of Grod, held out lor the 
taking away of sin, who would ever believe to the jus- 
tifying and sanctifying of their souls ? Here we see 
something of the value of the word and Spirit of Grod, 
so much slighted by the world. 'Whoso is wise, and 
will observe these things, even they shall understand 
the loving-kindness of the Lord.' 

" In the sense of the Scripture, then, it seems that 
that person is void of understanding, who knows not its 
commands and the blessing consequent upon obedi- 
ence, which blessing is the loving-kindness of the 
Lord. 

" Do we read, ' Repent — ^believe. Marvel not thai 
I said unto thee, ye must be born again. Walk be- 
fore me, and be ye perfect. Deny ungodliness aii4 
worldly lusts ; and live soberly, righteously, and god* 
ly in this present world. Love the Lord thy God wifk 
all thy heart.' If we may expunge one of these^ may 
we not expunge them all ? But by so doing we take 
our names from the book of life. How much better 
to yield obedience. How much better ! O how 
sweet ! The soul that has been at the feet of Jesus, 
wishes to be often there ; for he knows the peace of 
€U)d that passeth knowledge. He that hath this ex- 
perience, hath what chaseth away all his fears, save 
the holy filial fear of offending a holy, loving, indwell- 
ing Father — the loyal fear that wishes to be submis- 
sive at the feet of King Jesus, who rules on the 
throne of his kingdom, set up in \Vi^ ^oxd— the sacred 
fear that trembles at the t>ious\kX ot dA%\\);!^Yii%^^\aSr 



JAMES BRAINEAD TAYLOR. 347 

lowed breathings of that Spirit, whose temple is tho 
body of the saint. How harmless such guests would 
make the soul ! This fear is the fruit of love — and 
love is the fulfilling of the Jaw. Well, this is all we 
want, that is, in kind. We want, and shall for ever 
want ; and we may for ever have more, in measure^ 
of God's love. O may we sink — sink, and sink, and 
sink into this ocean ; for this (a paradox to the world,) 
is the way to rise ; and it will carry us higher than 
the stars, to an inheritance incorruptible, undefiled, 
and that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you 
who are kept by the power of God, through faith, unto 
a full and eternal salvation. We will talk of the rest 
when we shall walk the golden streets. Ah ! shall we 
see each other there ? If you do not get so high above 
me that I cannot reach you. By the grace of God I 
hope to shine forth even there — a sinner saved by grace. 

"A christian salutation to sister W. and the breth- 
ren R. and R., whom with yourselves I beseech, for 
the Lord Jesus Christ^s sake, and for the love of the 
Spirit, that ye strive together with me, in yourprayets 
to God for me. 

" Farewell. In the best bonds, your brother, in our 
Lord Jesus Christ, 

"James B. Taylor." 

The following was addressed to a colored woman, 
since gone to her rest, at the advanced age of 116 
years — whom Mr. Taylor seems to have regarded as 
one of the excellent of the earth, in whom he de- 
lighted. 



248 MmoiR OF 

" PHnceton, Dee. 24, 1831 

*' Aunt Sarah, perhaps, is expecting to hear from'lier 
friend Mr. Taylor. Could I be with you for an hour, 
we would converse upon things that perlaiu to the 
Angdom ; but you have a Friend on high, who deigns 
to visit your little room — nay, who takes up his abode 
in your heart — He has brought his Father with him , 
and the Holy Ghost, whom he promised to send, over- 
shadows and fills you. By and by, you will exchange 
your cottage for a palace ; you will lay aside your gar- 
ments below, ' to walk in white above.' Instead of 
prayer, you will be all praise. Instead of seeing Jesus 
by faith, you will see him as he is, face to face. Do 
you not exult in the prospect of dying — dying in the 
arms of Jesus, and of going to your Father, God? 
There, too, you will meet those who died in faith, and 
some with whom you have sung, and prayed, and wept 
below. And this is the sweetness of it — the place, the 
scene, will never close. Those that enter in shall go 
no more out. 

" You will be glad to hear that the Lord blesses me 
with his presence — my soul is in health and prospers — 
still help me in your prayers for me, that I may indeed 
be a man of God — one in whom God will delight to 
dwell — and one whom Grod will deign to honor in 
bringing sinners to Christ. 

^' Should the Lord continue you, I trust you will 
have a happy new year ; but if he should take yo« 
hence, it will be thrice happy. Farewell, 

"J. B. Taylor.*^ 

Of the same date, but a \\ti\e Va ^\i\ACAv^>\»tw ^^^^t 



JAMES BRAINERfi TA7L0R. 248 

time, we find Mr. Taylor's new-year's letter to his pa- 
rents, brothers, and sisters. 

. ''Nassau HaU, Dec. 24, 1824. 
" Endeared Parents, Brothers, and Sisters, 

" The time has arrived for my annual gift ; and, in 
anticipation, I wish you a happy new-year. Should it 
not be realized on earth, who of us doubts but it would 
be enjoyed at the right hand of God ? 

* There everlasting spring abides, ^ 

And never withering flowers : 
Death, like a narrow sea, divides 
This heayenly land from ours.' 

" To say that this may be the last epistle of this 
kind that I shall write, you know is to say wha$ the 
closing year naturally suggests. But it may be that 
the Lord of the vineyard has designed me as an un- 
der-dresser. 

" The close of the year generally finds men of busi- 
ness engaged in adjusting their accounts. Would it 
not be well for us, as stewards in the house of GU)d, 
and transacting business for our unseen Lord, to in- 
quire of each other, * How much owest thou unto my 
Lord V My father, my brother, my sister, how much 
owest thou? James, son, and brother, how much owest 
tJiou? 

" How great is our debt as a family ! In common 
with other families, we have enjoyed food, and rai- 
ment, and house, and home, and friends. The same 
social privileges, the same civil and religious liberty, 
have been given unto us as to our neigVibots. kx!A>xcL- 
der heaven where is there a family moxeYAea^^^ ^V^ 



250 mMom or 

fellow-feeling — more united to advance one another to 
tne upper kingdom? What hath €rod wrought? To 
him be all the glory. 

" But the past year has been fraught with loving- 
kindness and tender mercies! His mercy! Oitreach- 
eth to the clouds. 

<^ Not less as individuals, than as a family, do we 
owe unto the Lord. In looking over the past year, 
what a train of good hath followed, and in good order ! 
Prosperity hath been in the borders of each. How it 
hath been with you in particular circumstances yon 
will remember upon a review. What health continued 
^-what dangers escaped — what trials have been sanc- 
tified to wean you from the world — ^what lessons learn- 
ed by experience, whereby we are able to do more, 
and with greater facility, for Grod and each other — 
what seasons of refreshing from the presence of the 
Lord, both in secret, in the family, and in the great 
congregation ! 

'' As for me, the Lord, that heareth the young ravens 
when they cry, and taketh care of the sparrows, hath 
heard and taken care of me. As fully and as season- 
ably as he hath remembered them, so hath he admin- 
istered to me. Yes, I have not wanted any good thing; 
I have all and abound. How unlike my blessed Mas- 
ter ! When wandering up and down, he had not where 
to lay bis head. But he makes my couch for repose, 
and imparts sweet sleep— and besides, as a pillow 
softer than down, he gives me to lean upon his arm 
and rest on his bosom. It is impossible for me to de- 
scribe the communion into which he hath admitted me 
with himself during the pa&t ^eax, 
''Have we not all been T\peuvugio\\ieviwi*X "^A^o^ 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR, 251 

much have we grown in grace and better acquaintance 
with our own hearts and with our God ? 

" How much owe we unto our Lord ? ' More than 
ten thousand talents.' And what have we to pay ? All 
that we have, does it not belong to God ? How then 
shall the debt be cancelled ? We must not say, Lord, 
be patient, and I will pay thee all ; but fall down and 
rejoice that for Christ's sake God hath forgiven all our 
sins — the whole debt. For one, I feel constrained to 
say, thou hast in love to my soul delivered it from the 
pit of corruption, for thou hast cast all my sins behind 
thy back. 

" Let it be our aim to keep ourselves in the^ love of 
God. God is love, and love is the fulfilling of the law. 
Love, then, should be the reigning passion of our souls. 
This is the grace that never faileth. 

" Respecting ourselves as a family, and as indivi- 
duals, if we ^ seek first the kingdom of God and his 
righteousness,' we may expect the good hand of our 
God still to be upon us for good, in this the house of 
our pilgrimage. Whatever then is neglected, let not 
our souls suffer. But I think, as our souls are in health 
and prosper, so our daily business will succeed, and 
that to the glory of God. And may those committed 
to our care be greater sharers in our exertions, as 
though the next were to be our last year; for, indeed, 
if not to all, it may prove such to some. Let us each 
inquire, *Lord, is it II' May we strive together more 
in our prayers for one another. On Mondays I think 
of you all more particularly than at other times ; and 
I have had nearness of access to God in pleading for 
those I love. 
ff Who can tell hut we may contrive aomex\i\u^\vv« 



252 BEEMOUt OF 

whereby to do good ; or exert ourselves more in jnn- 
suing former plans ? Let us in all things lire to God, 
and eat, drink, sleep, and act for his glory. 

" The succeeding year may prove to be a jubilee to 
multitudes of souls. For this om pray er^ not our words 
merely should ascend, for our own sanctification, and 
for the purification of the church visible also. Let us, 
as much as in us lies, feed the hungry, clothe the 
naked, and help the helpless. As for our enemies, love 
them and do them good, for did not Christ manifest 
his love for us, while we were enemies ? He died for 
the ungodly. Let us be peace-makers. Be kindly affec- 
tioned one toward another. Love as brethren. If in life 
we are undivided, cemented in love, in death we shall 
not be sundered. May you all find the grace of hope 
filling you with all joy and peace in believing, that ye 
may abound in hope through the power of the Holy 
Ghost. And should I sink, as I deserve, may you rise 
to life. The Lord give you, every one, an entrance 
abundantly into his everlasting kingdom, and there 
may our united hallelujahs resound to God and the 
Lamb for ever and ever. If not before, I hope to meet 
you in one of the many mansions. Adieu. Your affec- 
tionate son and brother, 

"James B. Taylor." 

• To his Cousin M A . 



''Princetarit Dee, 23, 1834. 
"Notwithstanding my long silence, my thoughts 
have often flown across hill and dale to your habita- 
tion, with the inquiry, how is it with M. A. ? 

"Doubtless it has been weW VwVi -^om ^\V Vvvt da:^ 
long^ Had I before me this e^^mn^ «^ n\k^ ^^ ^^va 



JAMES BHAINERD TAYLOR. 253 

exercises since we parted, perhaps I should discover 
you shut out from the world, and at the same time 
s)iut up in the love of God. O Avhat place is like that 
ID which the soul is blessed with intimate holy com- 
munion with QoA our Father, and with his Son Jesus 
Christ, through the indwellmg of the Holy Ghost 7 
Hless the Lord that our souls are not strangers to such 
visits of love. The world knoweth them not, but unto 
us our God hath revealed the hidden mystery. 

"At another time I should discover you holding 
sweet converse witli some dear child of God, who with 
yourself has drunk deep into his love. What harmony 
between souls that vibrate in unison when touched 
with love divine I 

" At another time in your class or in the congrega- 
tion ; and there too you have renewed your strength. 
How good the good Shepherd is ! he feeds his sheep. 
How kind our Elder Brother ! he supplies our wants. 
How powerful our King ! he subdues our foes. And 
through all our journey we may expect that the Lord 
will provide. 

" If indeed you have been thus favored at home and 

abroad, you have gone up in the way of holiness. And 

does not your purpose to follow on to know the Lord 

stand firm ? Yes, my dear cousin, better things are 

Iioped of you than of some who seemed to run well for 

a time. And from what the Lord has discovered to us 

of his goodness, we are looking for still greater things ; 

for the path of the just is as the shining light that 

shineth more and more to the perfect day. Verily, I 

believe there is such a blessing as sinking into the 

love of God, la thinking on this subject, IVvaN^coraik- 

pared the love of Gfod to an ocean •, and a\3L\>\>ow^^ 

22 j.ii.'VvL^ot- 



254 MCjjoia or 

myself on the surface of this great deepi I could inift- 
gine myself sinking and sinking — bot how far ? O 
there are attainments in holy love which we hare not 
yet made I May we sink, and sink, and sink, and so 
get ont of the sight and influence of the world, and 
out of the reach of the deril. 

" My little room still witnesses the manifestations 
of God in melting my soul into love and tenderness ; 
so that in testimony of his favor I tell you thai I am 
ou my journey. Christ, as King, reigns on the throne 
of my heart. I have a consciousness of reconciliation, 
and am waiting for an unction from the Holy One, 
more and more to sink me into the ocean. Goo is 
Love. 

" Having heen feasted at the rich banquets of our 
Lord, we long to see a multitude come and possess 
more than we have enjoyed. O, when shall the sons 
of Levi — when shall ministers of the Gospel be more 
huly ; — when shall the church, as a hodij, put on tliis 
beautiful garment ? 

" Are there those with you, who ' hunger and thirst 
after righteousness?' May they expect to * he filled;'^ 
and not linger, but eat of the bread of life, and drink 
of tlie wells of salvation, till satisfied, 

" How sweet a frame is this : to have the simple 
language of the soul — more love — enlarge the vessel, 
and give me more — more faith — more meekness — more 

H0L1NK6S. 

^^ Day by day, may our souls rest under the smiles 

of our Father God, and God the Son. May Jesus 

breathe on us, and say, 'Receive ye the Holy Ghost;' 

and ieeling that our bodies arc his temples, may we 

keep them under — walk as becomeW ^^iXsvv^— ^& Oo5\- 




JAMES BRAIN EBD TAYLOR. 255 

dren of the day and not of the night. Be it ours in all 
things to keep consciences void of offence. To do this, 
we may often give offence to man, but in the sight of 
heaven we shall be harmless as doves. 

" Soon we shall be done with things below. Till 
then, we shall be sheep— pilgrims — soldiers ; sheep in 
the midst of wolves — pilgrims through a wilderness to 
a city out of sight — and soldiers for the Lord of hosts, 
{jet us then feed by our Savior's side, who as the 
good Shepherd cares for his sheep. Let us run and 
not be weary — let us fight and conquer. Then comes 
the crown : in company with my cousin I expect to 
wear it. 

" My mind is intent upon the work before me. Strive 
with me in your prayers, that 1 may receive a com- 
mission from the Lord, as well as from man, by being 
Oiled with the Holy Ghost. 

" As ever, your affectionate cousin, 

"James B. Taylor.*' 

To Miss W . 



" Nassau HaU, Dec. 30, 1824. 
** Very dear friend and sister, 

''Remembering your injunction not to forget the New 
Year's letter, I again wish you, in anticipation, a hap- 
py New Year. 

" At the close of a year, the thought naturally arises, 
how many, who started with us at the commencement 
of this year, are no more in the land of the living? 
And the prospect of as many dying the year just 
about to begin, is as serious as the fact xYv^siX \\io\s&^xv\s 
Imre fallen into their graves — appeateA \i^^v>\^ xXv^'vl 



S56 MEMOIB OP 

Judge^sunk to hell, or been raised to hearen durini; (he 
past year. Among those who shall yield to the de- 
stroyer before the close of the next year^ we may be 
numbered. 

" Reriewing the past year, I find it fraught with 
blessings temporal and spiritual. I hare just left pe* 
rasing the records of God's goodness tome— and coald 
I tell you all, you would say with me, ' O that men would 
praise the Lord for his goodness, and for his wonder* 
ful works to the children of men.' But I will not at- 
tempt a narration. Suffice it to say, I am under in- 
finite obligations to love God more than ever. And I 
hope you will still strive with me in your prayers to 
God for me, for an increase of faith, hope, love joy, 
meekness, humbleness of mind, holy zeal, and boldness 
for God. 

" I should rejoice to have an hour's interview with 
you, as in former days, to bear you tell of the loving- 
kindness of the Lord. But it is unspeakable and full 
of glory. It is with you as with some others, who can 
look forward to another world as a place to recount 
all. What awaits us on Zion's hill, I leave for you to 
imagine. And may your soul get further within the 
veil, and nearer to the throne of love. 

" As usual, I suppose you are in the midst of gayety 
and fashion. Do you find those professors, whose 
minds are taken up with outward ornament, best deco- 
rated within. I suppose you conclude with me, that 
a clean heart seeks the ornament of a meek and quiet 
spirit, which is so honorable in the sight of God, and 
tfo esteemed by the holy, rather than the embellish- 
ments of ^rt which man honors 1 
'*Misa W, every day's obaerfaxVoiv eoMNvcvr^v^^ ts«. 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 257 

more and more that piety is not always connected with 
a profession. It costs hut little (in this world) to be 
, united in form to God's people. In another, the hypo- 
crite will find that he has been playing the fool with 
his soul at a dear rate. While others trust in forms, 
may we have the power of godliness. While some 
tfhare only in the name, be it ours to possess the vir- 
tue of Christians — Christians justified and sanctified. 
While others feed on husks, may we eat the true bread. 
While others grasp at golden ore, and are unsatisfied 
let us obtain the true riches. 

" As this may be our last year, we should be excited 
to do our utmost for our Master. How many are around 
us that we can benefit? We still liye, and they are 
on the footstool of mercy. What we would do for them 
and for ourselves must be done quickly. I heard of 
the death of one of late, which caused me to ask, 
could not I have done something for him ? But he is 
gone. 

" Who can tell but some one of the young ladies of 
your household shall be followed to the grave ere the 
close of the next year ? I know you wish to meet them 
at the right hand of the Judge ; but are they anxious 
to meet you there ? There is danger, it seems to me, 
danger of their retaining their unregenerated hearts, 
and carrying them to the bar of God. And who ever 
returned to tell us that an impenitent sinner ever got 
rid of his wicked heart, after passing the threshold of 
eternity ? Ah ! his once proffered Friend is now his 
enemy — his state is fixed — he is lost — he is damned 
for ever ! 

" A word to the young ladies. TYie ^^m x^%X. \% 
^one has witnessed the long-sufTeTing "patieue^ oi C^^ 

22* 



25S MEMOIR OF 

to US ; while others are beyond hope, we ure still pri- 
soners of hope. The oppormnity is offered us to flee 
10 the strong hold — even to Christ. Commencing a 
ueiv era of time, would it not be well to secure the 
favor of the Most High, and let fature days or years 
bear witness to your allegiance to the King of kings ? 
In answering this question, take into consideration 
liic need you will have of Christ in the solemn scenes 
of the death-bed, the grave, and the judgment. 

'* But, Miss W. farewell ! A Christian salutaiion 
to the friends of Christ. Affectionately yours, 

" James B. Taylor." 

Diary. — " Awoke this morning with a heavenly 
sweetness, and took my usual walk as it began to 
dawn. Endeavored to follow Christ in his humilia- 
tion. This passage has been of comfort to me during 
the disturbance in college, and I have considered it a 
stronger defence than a wall. 'Whoso hearkeneth 
unto me shall dwell safely, and shall be quiet from 
the fear of evil.' " 

As Mr. Taylor closed the former year, so, with the 
spirit of genuine piety, he began the new year with 
God. Perhaps no man more strictly complied with 
the injunction, " In all thy ways acknowledge him*/' 
and none seemed more confidently to expect the ful- 
fillment of the promise, " He shall direct thy paths.'' 
The commencement of his diary for this year is an in- 
teresting and instruct ve exhibition of his obedience 
and faitii in this respect. 

'' Jan. 1 1S25.— -That ascioxVvex '^ «ax \\u."& \^\\t^ ^>n«s 



JAMES BBAINEBD TAYLOR. 259 

IS to me no matter of regret. In time, and bejrond time, 
it will be remembered as a season of distinguishing 
mercy. Thanks to the good Shepherd for ' the green 
pastures ' of the past year : to my heavenly Father, for 
his smiles : my Comforter, for his presence. 

" What will occur this year is hid from mortal man. 
But O, it is in the mind of the omniscient God. And 
this God is my God, to whom I am willing to refer 
all, both for myself and others. That he is on the 
throne, is enough for me. And his glory he will not 
give to another. 

" Direct me, O Lord, in the right way. Lead me 
in a plain path all paved with love — the path that 
leadeth upward, and reacheth the land of rest — the 
way of holiness — the King's highway. 

" I believe there are richer blessings in store for 
me ; if not on earth, in heaven. And the Lord's will 
being done, it is not a matter of much concern to me 
whether on earth or in heaven. But should my life 
be spared this year also, may my soul sink — and sink — 
and sink into God, day by day. Then I shall grow in 
grace, and in the knowledge of the Lord Jesus — deny 
myself, take up my cross, and follow Christ — live to 
God — ^be a light in the world — salt of the earth — wise 
as a serpent, harmless as a dove — spiritual, and not 
carnal. 

" O that the lives of my relatives who are not yet 
fcr God, might be spared, to repent this year, and come 
to Christ ; that my friends, who love the Lord, may 
honor him more, by bringing forth much fruit. May 
this year be a favored season for Zion. 

'^ Lord, increase piety in the tootcfimeu. '^^^^ ^<b 
§uitder'sh»pkerd$ carefnJ oi the flock. lHa.^ \Ve ^mmS 



260 MEMOIR OF 

be purified. Let souls be joined to the Lord in thou- 
sands. Prepare candidates for the holjr ministry for 
their office. Make all that come after more holy and 
self-denying than those who have gone before. Pre- 
pare me eminently to win souls to Christ, and build up 
the church. This is all I ask in this world in regard to 
my relation to smners. For thee would I labor; for 
thee, O Christ, would I die, rather than be a hinder- 
ance to thy cause. But here I am ; do with me as 
seemeth good in thy sight. Thy will be done.'* 

To Rev. Mr. S . 



'' I must tell you that the time passes, for the most 
part, sweetly, peacefully, and sometimes with joy and 
exultation. Perhaps, since I have been in college, I 
have not enjoyed more steadily the presence of ottr 
Lord than I do now. My studies are more agreeabli:. 
and my engagements are so regular, that I forget the 
day of the month, and sometimes have to pause for 
the day of the week. Come and interrupt me. I say 
come, if the Lord will. However glad I should be to 
see my brother, more happy would I be to have him, 
even from me, in the pathway of duty. Eternity is 
before us. In time we may yet spend happy days to- 
gether. Beyond time, we will hope to sit down toge- 
ther in the kingdom of God. And though I would 
not be light on so sacred a theme, will you not, then, 
introduce me to some whom, under God, you have 
sent thither? With what double ardor should we raise 
our sails and ply our oars ! Are you not among the 
CiTMftrAc of Jesus Christ — a rouer-minister. (1 Cor. 
) May the Captam du^ci >jwxx ewvi^^. '^-^jj 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 861 

you keep a good look-out — run clear — ship multitudes 
— enter the haven fully laden — cast anchor and ba 
safely moored for ever. Pray that I also, with wide* 
spread sail, may be wafted over to the heavenly port, 
the New Jerusalem. The good Spirit blow upon and 
fill our sails." 

Diary. " Jan. 13. — ' His loving-kindness, O how 
great !' Have just risen from the floor, where my peace 
was like a river. I longed for more of God ; for a 
suitable preparation for the work of an evangelist. I 
felt myself a worm, and no man ; but, blessed be the 
Lord, I am in his hands. Here would I lie, and wait 
and long for his direction from day to day. I love the 
truth, and long to be more and more sanctified through 
it. Praise the Lord for holiness — for a clean heart. 
May I keep myself in the love of God. 

*' 16th.— The past week— this is Sabbath— has been 
fraught with loving-kindness and tender mercy — and 
base ingratitude. After the rich blessing of last Thurs 
day, my spirit, before morning, was shorn of its 
strength, by what has so often shrouded my soul in 
darkness. But the Lord healed my backsliding. ' If 
any man sin, we have an Advocate with the Father ;' 
and ' if we confess our sins, he is £Eiithful and just to 
forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrigh- 
teousness.' He brought me to exercise confidence in 
God, and my soul was restored. Alas ! that I should 
lefive the Lord and wander from the fountain. Make 
me, Lord, to know wisdom from my past falls, and 
may I set a double watch and repel my foes. Blessed 
be the Lord God; the God of Israel, v^Vio oid\^ ^q^^^^sw 
wondrous thiaga ; and blessed be V\\s VioVf "Mkiccv^ ^^ 



862 MEMOIR OF 

ever. Had, between ten and eleven oVlock A. M. a 
blessing of blessings. Took up the Memoirs of the 
dear Brainerd, and followed him through part of ha 
last sickness. When I came to his interview with a 
clergyman concerning the great importance of the 
work of the ministry, my heart broke ; it had heaved 
before, but now it melted and overflowed with unut- 
terable emotions, while floods of tears ran down mine 
eyes. The importance of the work increased in my 
apprehension, while, in my own view, I was but a 
worm, and no man ; yet I longed to preach the Gos- 
pel ; I thirsted to labor in God's vineyard ; to be an 
under-shepherd was my only desire ; and the thought 
of ever relinquishing the glorious object increased still 
more my emotions, while my place seemed to be in 
the duat — nay, if justice should take its course, thf* 
lowest hell. 

^^ Here I felt such an exercise as I am not conscious 
of having ever experienced before — a rising of soul to 
God ; and being filled with love, until I yielded myself 
up entirely to his disposal, to live or die, labor or not, 
I fell before Grod, and acknowledged his blessing with 
thanksgiving. 

" I soon repaired to the hall for worship. Had not 
been seated long before a heavenly breeze wafted my 
soul to higher communion with God. Never till then 
did I so feel the import of the pnssage, ' I am sick of 
love.' The sermon was attended with power to my 
soul. Thank the Lord for so faithful a servant as the 
preacher appeared to be. He seemed to be one who 
had drank at the fountain of holiness, and lived on an- 
gePs food; hence I came «Lwa^ -wVxVi. \Vw^ eouviction 
fhat /iolineaa^holines9\ \s tVi^ sx\i\i^ %<i«^v ^K *^^v^ 



JAMES BRAIMERD TAYLOR. 263 

preaching. Upon this point my mind has been much 
exercised lately ; and I bless God that I am becoming 
more and more conformed to him. The thought was 
suggested, * What will you do when you become a 
preacher? You will not be fluent.' My answer was, 
at which I take courage, 'In the Lord have I righte- 
ousness and strength ;' and I charged myself not to 
fear, for the Lord is my light and my salvation. No : 
I have nought to fear but offending God. I may take 
courage : onward let me go, * redeeming the time,' 
Jiving as becomelh one whom the Lord thus favors. 
How much depression and gloom rested upon Brain- 
erd — none upon me. I hardly know what it is. Health 
of body too is mine. O to lay it all out for God ! 

" 17th. — Since Sabbath I have, for the most part, en- 
joyed a sweet savor of divine things ; but this evening 
the Lord has come of a truth, to deepen his work in 
my soul. The effect seemed to be 

* The speechless awe that dares not movci 
And all the silent heaven of love.' 

Incense had been burning through the day. My will- 
ing soul looked upward, I longed for a deepening of 
the work of grace* Peace, in steady stream, glided me 
along; but my soul thirsted for God, for the living 
God. Sat down and opened the word, and read, 'Jesus 
stood and cried. If any man thirst, let him come unto 
me and drink.' JesUs ! O, at that name what emotions 
arose ; his loveliness ; his condescension. My soul 
melted, and was filled with love. 

" What most occupied my mind, was my anticipated 

office. O ! it is more and more magnVfted \tv tva>} V\«^ • 

Anif as It gathers greatness, I long for iVve be^x. v\wcXv- 



264 MEMOIR or 

tication for it — holiness. More of late than formerly 
does this subject call forth strong cries and tears. I 
now feel in my soul, 'Who is suJQ^ient for these 
things?' Shall I be left to prove a drone among the 
church's watchmen? Shall I live as I see many mi- 
nisters live ? Forbid it, Lord. They are ciphers when 
they ought to be thousands. And what lukewarmness 
— what apathy— what worldly-mindedness, pervade 
candidates for the ministry ! 

"How I longed for full preparation for the work; 
and of the kind the Lord would have me possessed of. 
And rather than live to prove a curse to the church, 
by being a mercenary — worldly — and thus, a soul' 
damuing minister, I would now be removed. But the 
great Head of the church is breathing on me from time 
to time. He gives me the holy anointing; he sends 
sweet longings for his glory — holy jealousy for his 
honor. On him let me still lean and cast every care. 
Then I felt willing to relinquish all for Christ, to go 
any where, and to be any thing for him. And he 
showed me his countenance, and my strength was 
renewed. 

" Sitting under the word this evening, honey from 
the rock dropped upon me. O, how good ! The rest 
is already begun — the earnest is given — it is withlx. 
If I should say, I know him not, I should lie, and do 
not the truth ; for I feel that I know God and his Son 
Jesus Christ, and am known of him. O, when shall I 
see him as he is? When shall I from earth away? 
' O, glorious hour !' I am expecting his chariot; yet 
my prevailing preference is, if the will of the Lord be 
so, to live and do the wotk o? «iti et>augel\«t^^Tvd make 
full proof of my raiDislTY •, and X-Vi^xi x\v«t^ ^V^^\\i^ %». 



JAMES BRJUllteRO TAYLOR. S65 

eternity still. The will of the Lord be done. The 
kingdom is his — the work is his — and the glory is his. 
Amen, and amen." 

To a young Christian : 

" January 23, 1825. 

" Soon a year will have gone by since that evening 
when you thought you ' determined to know nothing 
save Jesus Christ and him crucified.' Has the before 
barren fig-tree brought forth fV]uit corresponding with 
the transplanting and cultivation ? Once in the barren 
soil of the world — now in the garden of God ; once as 
a sheep going astray — but now returned unto the Shep- 
herd and Bishop of souls. Can the world bring in their 
testimony that you laid out yourself more in unrighte- 
ousness than the people of Qod can that you spend 
yourself in holy living ? As a tree planted by the river 
side— as a sheep in green pastures — as the sun at its 
meridian — so you should bring forth fruit a hundred- 
fold. Always abound in spiritual health, and shine re- 
splendently in your every-day walk and conversation. 

" I have before me some mottos, and I will tran- 
scribe them for you : 

' Whatever you do, do it for God.' 
For thee, Lord, for thee.* 
I0 this lawful t* 
Is it beoomiugT* 
Is it expedient?' 

I will add another — 

*How will this appear to me on my ftsVn^VM^T 
When Mugbt is presented, to be, to do^ or to sujfer^ 



1 



266 MfiMOlR OP 

we may apply these tegta as in the light of Qod't 
word, and in view of the relations we sustain to him, 
to the church, and to the world, and decide. 

" Ever retiring^ fubmissivej mild^ let us act the 
part of little children, and so carry about with us the 
spirit of Jesus, whose plan of benevolence, having been 
devised, is now going on in its accomplishment. In the 
temple that is going up on the foundation rock Christ 
Jesus, let us try, by co -working with God, to have at 
least one nail in the building. 

" With earnest desire that you may be holy, harm- 
less, undefiled, and thus Christ^like, I say, press for- 
w^rd^ and as you go onwearcL, look wpward.^^ 

Diary. <' Jan. 23. 

* Love diyiue, ail love exGelliDg.* 

" This has been a high day to me. The Lord of Uie 
Sabbath has remembered me for good ; and I praise 
his name. But how shall I record his visits of love 1 
They surpass my powers of description. There is a 
certain something which is known only to those who 
have felt the same, that requires a higher language 
than mine to express. 

" The exercises in the hall were profitable. My soul 
was drawn out in prayer for a fitness for the work of 
God in his vineyard, and melted with longings, not 

only for myself, but for brother M , that God would 

make us eminently meet to do his will. 

*•' After preparing for Bible recitation, took the Me- 
moirs of Whitefield and read o^ \\\^ Vi^vck^ ^ blessing 
to ministers^ Ac- when a l\\ow«,\iX <:xo%^^^ tK>i wyvw^^ 



JAMES BRAINEKD TAYLOR. 267 

which was as an arrow dipped in poison. When I 
came to analyze it, it appeared to amount to this . 
' What is the use of striving to win souls ? you will 
never gain as many as he did.' The effect was (for it 
seems I gave place to the devil) the removal of that 
ardent thirst for preparation which I felt before. I took 
the alarm and chided myself— fell before the Lord, 
and acknowledged all ; and I felt that that sinful 
thought was enough to separate me from the love and 
favor of God for ever — I could urge no plea, but the 
once-suffering, bleeding, dying Savior; and through 
him I could discern that the Lord had only forsaken 
me in a little wrath, and that with everlasting kind- 
ness he would draw me. My heart melted a little ; 
and then I could recollect with thankful remem- 
brance the blessing with which I was visited, two 
years and nine months ago, about the hour I was then 
before the Lord. As yet, the longing to preach the 
Gbspel, and anxiety for fruitfulness, and solicitude for 
full preparation, had not re-entered my heart, nor did 
I know that they would ever return again. I felt that 
I did not deserve this grace ; and that God was under 
no obligation to bestow it — and that it was my folly 
that had brought me into this condition. Here I ven- 
tured to ask the Lord his will concerning me ; and 
that if it were his will that I should possess zeal for 
bis glory and a longing desire to preach the Gospel, 
he would then show it me. I looked, and waited, and 
prayed — and the answer came, and in a measure which 
perhaps I never felt before — all else seemed vain. O 
the heavings of my inmost soul to be this one things 
VIZ. an under-shepherd. Then the inqmi^ wo%t\\*w^^ 
sIuUJ I ever preach the Gospel 1 L^otd, nm \ «i ^iVo^ 



\ 



268 MEMOIR OF 

vessel ? Whether it was an answer or not, I took it to 
be such, and in the affirmative. I feel willing to life 
a hundred years on earth, if I might work for God 
and bring souls to Christ, and then have nothing di* 
rainished from eternity. O who would not live a 
thousand years, if it were the will of God ? Let me 
be no more anxious about living or dying ; but let me 
live unto the Lord, that when I die, I may die unto the 
Lord. 

" From the experience of to-day, learn, my soul, 
ever to apply to the fountain as soon as a stain is con- 
tracted, and with double earnestness. Rather learn to 
live so near as to drink for the keeping away all ma- 
ladies, and for constant refreshing. 

^^ 27th. — Last week was invited to attend a party, 
but had no inclination to comply — no, my soul was 
too much set on heavenly, to desire the earthly enter- 
tainment ; and so long as eternal things are pressing 
upon me, I think I shall find no tfme to devote to the 
gay circle. Instead of mingling with that circle, was 
called to speak for my Lord to a company of females. 
The Lord melted some of the audience, and I have 
now returned from seeing one who felt the word spo- 
ken. Endeavored to be faithful to a student of theo- 
logy who called on me. Alas ! at how low an ebb is 
piety among candidates for the ministry ! Lord, save 
me from the contagion. He made a long acknowledg- 
ment of his coldness, but at the same time mingled 
with it many fashionable excuses. He did not tarry 
long. I pressed him to do his duty, and come out and 
live for God. May conviction drive him to his closet 
and to his knees, until he £ud the reviving influences 
of the Spirit. 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 209 

*^ Endeavored to arouse two fellow-students to more 
life — alas ! for professors of religion here, 

'* 28th. — Spent part of last evening in visiting the 

poor with brother . One poor old colored man, 

whom we found in deep happy poverty, seemed near 
to the kingdom of heaven. He said, among other 
things, that he had rather be as he was, with Jesus in 
bis soul, than to be a king upon a throne. 

'^ At evening devotion, read a part of the last chap- 
ter of John. To the question, ^Lovest thou me?' I 
could appeal to the Lord with melting of soul. Hen- 
ry's remarks were profitable. I fell before the throne, 
and had a longing for souls — I thirsted to bring souls 
to Christ. I groaned to win souls, and almost with 
agony pleaded to have souls for my hire. I think 1 
felt willing to lay out my life for souls. Money is not 
what I desire. Souls, souls, I want souls. * Give me 
children,' was my pry, and I wept with desire to say 
at last, ' Here am I, Lord, and the children thou hast 
given me.' 

" I left my plea before the Lord for the coming Sab- 
bath, when I expect to go out to my little meeting — 
may preparation for the seed be made by some fore- 
runner — may the seed be sowed skillfully, sink deep, 
take root, and spring up, and bear fruit. 

" Feb. 7. — On Friday concluded on a subject for 
Saturday night, on which to speak to the congregation 
that expected me. Went and delivered my message, 
after a rich visitation from God, at evening devotion ; 
and it proved a message of God to souls. Yesterday 
was the Sabbath, and it was a day of rest to me, al- 
though I labored for God. Anticlpatitkg xxv^ tcw^^^vcl'^ ' 
in the afternoon and evening, I comimUe^ tcv^ t-axx?* 

23* 



270 MEMOIR OF 

• 

to Qod. Having come from worship ia tht ball, I 
mused, and the fire burned — I waited upon Gro4i flilM 
he heard my prayer. Having returned from dinner, I 
again prostrated myself before Grod, and felt less than 
the least — the unworthiest of the unworthy : thinking 
upon my subject as it was prepared, I concluded it 
was good for nothing, unless accompanied by the Spi- 
rit to the hearts of the people. I wrestled with Grod for 
a blessing. I was burthened with a desire that could 
not be uttered for the coming of the Lord. I felt un- 
worthy to go out to the people, yet panted to tpea^ 
for Gk>d. I thirsted, I drank ; I hungered, and was 
filled; then took my staff and traveled on, and met 
the people. It was a heart-searching time, as one en- 
gaged Christian testified to me this morning. Thr 
Lord follow it with his blessing. 

" Walked to attend another meeting about three 
miles distant, where there seemed still deeper solem- 
nity, and where I was greatly helped. ' O Lord, how 
manifold is thy goodness to thy servant !* ' Pll try to 
prove faithful.' Felt happy in God, after the exercise 
of the day, although fatigued in body. 

" To-day has brought with it a trial. A repeated 
request reached me that I would leave college for a sea- 
son, and become a ' yoke-fellow ' with brother S., now 
laboring at Springfield in New-Jersey, and where souls 
are joining themselves to the Lord. Arguments, both 
in favor and against it, arise in my mind. I commit- 
ted myself and the decision as well as I could into 
Grod's hands. My heart went up to the great Head of 
the church — the question arose, why here constructing 
a triangle, when souls may be perishing? My heart 
melted and my eyes ran dovru V\t\i xew^. 



JAMES BRAIMERD TAYLOR. 271 

^ At evening devotion I fell before the Lord, and 
ealled upon God my heavenly Father. But my peti- 
tion could not find utterance. I only wanted to know 
the will of the Lord concerning me. This passage 
entered my mind, 'Be still, and know that I am God :' 
also, 'Commit thy way unto the Lord — acknowledge 
him in all thy ways ; and he shall direct thy paths.' 
My tears were dried up. After petitioning in behalf 
of brother S. and the lambs around him, my father's 
house and friends, I arose to praise the Lord. I was 
only desirous to know his will ; and I trust in him to 
make the way plain. I felt willing either to stay or 
go at his command. If I find the door to open wide, 
so as to let me pass out, I shall consider it a call of God 
to go: if not, I remain to do his will here. 'Praise the 
Lord, O my soul.' 

"I knew not, nor do I know now, what I should do 
if I went, but I felt willing to do any thing to help on 
tae work of God. 

"8th. It is decided. Dr. C.'s negative puts it out of 

my power to leave college. Wrote brother S ; 

may my letter refresh his spirit. Had an interview 
with an aged brother, who is a man full of faith and 
of the Holy Ghost. He refreshed my soul. O for a 
host of such pilgrims." 

In the letter to Rev. Mr. S., after giving am account 
of his struggle between inclination and duty, he thus 
wntes: 

''Since the decision, I do not rebel; but consider it 
all for the best. I would gladly have Ve(iom% ^^s«ax 
belper^hut enough — I acquiesce. 



272 MEMOIR OF 

" Of late I hare receired large blessings from Qod. 
I think I have been more in the school of Christ this 
session than ever before. And I have never had such 
evidences of being called of God to spend for him — nor 
such breaking of souls to do the work of an evangelisL 
Yes : I have fell desirous to live only to bring souls to 
Christ. I have been strengthened of the Lord to bear 
testimony both to saints and sinners — and the Lord 
has owned the word. Direct effort is against wind 
and tide. And besides, a student's inflaence is too 
cheap where they abound. I loog to see more devo- 
tedness among the students of the theological semina- 
ry. Every third Sabbath I attend a meeting three miles 
distant, and generally once or twice a week I talk in 
town. Every thing goes on pleasantly ; I spend my 
time with but few, except the indigent, the inquiring, 
and engaged Christians. Yet I am nothing but a sin- 
ner saved by grace. But this one thing I know, that 
'God is love' — that I love Grdd, and am loved of him; 
and should I deny it, I should deny the clearest de- 
monstration ever made to my faith and feelings. 'Ah 
praise to Him that sitteth on the throne.' " 

To the Rev. Mr. H., Mr. Taylor wrote on the 13th 
February, as follows: 

" That which has mostly occupied my mind this ses- 
sion, is a due preparation for the Gospel ministry. 
While I have given literary acquirements their due, 
the best gifts have been earnestly coveted. My call of 
God has appeared to me more and more clear, and my 
soul has burned with desire to win souls to Christ 
For this, and this alone, I Vva.^e -wx^Vk^d to Uve^ and 
to nccompUsh this I have {e\i mWVfts \o\v^^ ^W^- 



JAMES fiRAINERO TAYLOR. 273 

sand yean. I have longed to live and preach the Gos- 
pel ; (md I felt that God was either aiiointing me for 
his work on earth, or for a speedier flight to heaven. 
While willing to depart and be with Christ, I still 
strongly desired to preach the Gospel. At the same 
time, rather than go out without the approbation of the 
great Head of preachers, I would retire in silence, 
weep in secret, and there wait my appointed change. 

" On a certain occasion — let me tell you — on a cer- 
tain occasion, when, in answer to my prayer, the hea- 
yens were opened and let down ' peace like a river ' — 
I left this solicitude to preach the Gospel remaining, 
and yet feared that I might not. Like a little child, I 
looked up and said, Father, am I a chosen vessel to 
preach the Gh)spei ? My dear friend, whether it was 
an answer in the affirmative or not, judge thou; but 
at that moment there came over me what I must 
leave to another world to furnish a name for. I was 
no more solicitous, nor have I been since, whether I 
should live to preach the Gospel or not 

''I feel that I have been in the school of Christ 
where I now am: 1. as a Probationer. Thus were the 
disciples, before they were commissioned and sent out 
to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. While with 
Christ, their conduct was held up to the world — to 
angels — before the Lord himself. They were proved. 
1 Tim. 3 : 10. 

"2. I aiA in the act of preparing. The disciples 
went through a training. They were brought up at the 
feet of the great Teacher in Israel, whose perfect ex* 
ample was proposed for their imitation. They were 
hill intimates too, and held communion with hkcL. ^.\v<^ 
hfi iHught them lessons in theology, upoxi ^Vv\e\v^ ^<& ^ 



274 MEMOIR OF 

basis, all the minister's furniture should rest ; for it 
the superstructure be not on this Rocky who will in- 
sure it in the day of Grod's wrath ? The apostles re- 
ceived a commission to go out for a season ; and this 
seemed as a trial and preparation too. At length, in 
Christ's last command, they received more power, and 
had a broader seal. God grant that that day, to which 
1 am looking forward, may be as the day of my es- 
pousals. 

" Like the apostles, I go out from time to time, erery 
third Sabbath regularly, and frequently during the in- 
terval, to call lost sinners to repentance. Last evening 
I met a few anxious souls — plead for' me — ^plead for 
them." 

Diary. " Feb. 15. — Will God sanctify me to himself 
more than ever ? O to live — to labor — to spend all foi 
God. Help, Lord, help thy servant, ' whom thou hast 
redeemed to thyself by thy precious blood.' 

"27th. — ^ How amiable are thy tabernacles, O Lord 
of hosts !' Thus I found them this morning. My soul 
went out for the preacher, and he came with a message 
for me— I was blessed indeed. Through most of the 
sermon 1 could witness in my soul to the truth de- 
livered. My heart leaped within me for joy. Thus 
this day has been to me y day of gladness. By and by 
1 hope to rest above. 

"March 5. — To-day I trust salvation has visited 
this college. A young man, in whom I have taken a 
lively interest ever since he joined us — who has been 
led away contrary to my advice, but whom I have 
followed with the truth notwithstanding his vices, has 
professed hope of eternal \V?e. 'Y\iw:^\\ifeY.o\\.,\&.\ 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 275 

have been in any way the means of bringiDg him to 
Christ. This, he says, is the case. This, with some 
cases in town, seems to be an interpretation of my de- 
tention from Springfield. 

" March 10. — Returned from meeting the little band 
of anxious souls, where I found two of our number 
who professed hope. One seemed full of peace and 
joy. O what a change every way ! Others present 
to-night, seemed near to the kingdom ; but they are 
far off till they submit. Not one word of consolation 
has been offered in these cases, but I proceed with 
them as with others: 1. To induce the sinner to com- 
mit himself on the subject of religion. 2. When thus 
committed, to show him the awful responsibility rest- 
ing upon him, and the great danger of delay. 3. Show 
him his sins against the law. 4. Urging, by Gospel 
motives, immediate submission — showing that God 
puts no barrier in the way of the sinner's coming to 
Christ, but that the obstacles are wholly in himself. 
5. That he grows worse every hour he rebels against 
God. One thing particularly recommended was, be- 
ing alone. This course has been attended with a 
blessing. Trembling has seized some, and the con- 
sequence is, they justify Grod and condemn them- 
selves." 

In the following letter Mr. Taylor appears in a 
light most commendable and worthy of remembrance . 
auid imitation. 

" Nassau BdU, Mttrch 9, 183&. 
^ Bdored Parenti, 

'^ Having a little time this morning, I e\ieetl\i>\^ ^<^- 
rcte it to telling you of my affairs. 



■% 



27G MEMOIR OF 

'' I am nearly recovered from a heavy cold wbicli 
confined me to my room for a few days. The * light 
affliction' has been sanctified. 

" You are now looking out* for your children's pre- 
sence — waiting to give them a cordial reception into 
your new mansion. In times xmst we have hailed 
each other with grateful emotions. The time before 
the last, what a melting season we had before the 
family altar, soon after our united salutations. And 
how many seasons of refreshing have we enjoyed 
while we have conversed, and sung, and prayed, and 
wept together ? I long to see your faces again, and 
again tell, and hear you tell, of the loving-kindness 
of the Lord. Again do I long to sit and kneel beside 
that father who has watched with anxious solicitude 
over the wandering foot-steps of a once unruly son. 
Again do I long to sit and kneel beside that mother 
whose fostering hand hath raised a child for the world 
— for the church — for God — for heaven. Yes, my dear 
parents, I long to see your faces, and be together bless- 
ed by our heavenly Father. Well, shall I ? Shall my 
friends be gratified? 

" You will remember, that when at home last, I left 
you for a short time, and again returned ; when you 
concluded, from a combination of circumstances, that 
I ought to return again to Colchester. You bade me 
•God speed,' for you believed that it was his will that 
I should go. Did you ever regret your decision? 
And have you not, even in praying for mc, asked with 
this petition, * Thy will be done?' Then you are pre- 
pared to let the Lord and his church have me, instead 
ofhaviDg me yourselves. You will endure the disap- 
pointment for Christ's sake,\iiuA V^^^' I w wwi v\w xwo^^ 



\ 



JAMBS BRAINERD TAYLOR. 371 

May this evermore be your disposition. You have 
given me up to Qod by frequent surrenders. Now you 
will not take me back again. No, you would not take 
me out of his hands. You would not take me from his 
disposal, if you could. Rather would you say, should 
we never more see our son James, the Lord lead him 
-—the Lord use him — the Lord be glorified by and 
through him. 

^' It is probable you will not see me the ensuing va- 
cation ; and for several reasons : not because I cannot 
cross the rivers and hills that intervene ; not because 
I am straitened in circumstances ; not because I want 
affection ; no ; but because a Macedonian cry seems 
to come from another quarter. My friend Mr. S. has 
writen mie thrice, and as often urged me to leave col* 
lege and go to his aid. He wished me to become his 
' yoke-fellow ' for a season. He is now waiting im- 
patiently for my arrival. I did not leave college. To- 
day I have received a verbal request from him. 

^^ The Lord is blessing his labors, and he wishes mt 

to be with him. I may say it to you, but not to every 

one, he has such confidence in me as to make me his 

companion. By associating with him during vacation, 

1 may learn many important lessons, which, if I visited 

Middle Haddam, might be for ever lost to me and to 

the church. This region seems to be the harvest-field 

at present. Laborers are wanted. I am drawn to him. 

Were I to go to Connecticut with my present convic* 

iions of duty, I should be unhappy. Thus, with all 

the affection of an affectionate son, I have now to 

leave father and mother, brothers and sisters, and go 

forth. My own inclination would be to «e« ^o>\\ \ra\ 

for Christ's sake I must leave all and {o\\on« \vvq\. 

24 j.'^t^sVjt. 



278 MEMOIR OF 

" From these considerations, while you are disap* 
pointed do not murmur, but pray the more for me* 
You have encouragement to pray for me and my suc- 
cess. The Lord hath ahready heard you. He hath 
prospered me. 

" During the present session, God hath been with 
ine, and blessed me, and made me a blessing. Brother 
F. will tell you of the conversion of five souls over 
whom I have rejoiced. Praise the Lord for his good- 
ness. The Lord bless my father and mother. 

"As ever, your affectionate son, James." 

" To a Friend. 

" March 30, 1825. 

" You speak of ministers' dying. How mighty their 
responsibility! How awful the account of the un- 
godly minister ! I have felt of late, willing to live a 
long life to be a co-worker with God. When I look 
around upon candidates for the holy ministry, what 
shall I say ? The Lord answer the prayer of his hand- 
maid. 'May you indeed be an exception from many, 
who, in preparation for the glorious work before them, 
lose their ardor, which, as laborers in Christ's vine- 
yard, they particularly need.' 1 doubt not but this will 
be your oft repeated and continued prayer for me. 

" The reason, in my humble opinion, why profes- 
sors of religion in our colleges and theological semi- 
naries are not more alive to God, is either, 1st, becausf*, 
if they brought Christ with them when they came, 
they have not been careful to walk in him as they had 
received him, and so have stepped aside, and were tm- 
mediately out of the wa^ \ oi^ 2d\ if ttey had Christ 
in them the hope of glory, «iiiA ^«\\iiwft^\!:\\x\;\S.\vNa.>^ 



JAMBS BEAINERD TAYLOR. 219 

80 speakj they have not been engaged to enthrone him 
again ; or, 3d, and most of all, because, notwithstand- 
ing their name to live, they are still, as they have ever 
been, dead — nay, twice dead in trespasses and sins. 

^' I know you take an interest in my prosperity. And 
to encourage you still to pray, I can tell you, I do pros- 
per. God prospers me. The right hand of God U 
stretched out for me, and victory turns on his side — 
on my side— on our side — yc*, the Lord is for us. 

" ' Not of myself, but of the grace of God bestowed, 
upon me, I will glory ; not of myself, but of the grace 
of God in me I will glory.' And if, by that grace upon 
and in me, good hath been done to others, let the Au- 
thor be magnified. And I will hope to be blessed with 
the blessedness of one who, though under God he may 
have turned one sinner from the error of his ways, yet 
is ready to own himself an unprofitable servant. 

" April 2, 1825. — Yesterday was much indisposed — 
mused upon my state — thought that soon I should be 
cold in the grave, and that possibly the present indis- 
position might terminate in death. This passage oc- 
cur ed : ' Set thy house in order.' 1 felt that I wanted 
one piece of furniture — a broken, a pure heart. Blessed 
be God, he gave me what I wanted. I felt that I was 
eleansed — that my house was in order — that I was 
ready ^ meet^ on my way to glory. I had a spirit of 
prayer for the lambs of my little fold. Whatever be- 
came of me, I desired for them a holy life. They 
seemed precious to me as the apple of my eye. 

« From the means used last night, feel much better 
to-day. Will the Lord restore me fulVf V^ Vi»^xW 
* NevertbelesSf not my will.' Wkile 1 Vwe,\'ww\^^i^^ 



280 MEMOIR OP 

well, that I might do the more for God. Bat he knows 
what is hest, and that is best for me. 

" 5lh. — Called on Miss W , who seems stronger, 

and yet stronger in the faith. From her testimony I 
believe she is a child of God. After much counsel I 
[darted from her, not expecting to see her again before 
she returns home. God Almighty protect her. God our 
Father keep her from the evil one, sanctify her wholly, 
and make her useful." 

To this lamb of the flock of Christ, brought into the 
fold by the blessing of God upon Mr. Taylor's labors, 
he wrote the following letter of instructions and ex- 
hortation, which not only shows how well he was 
qualified already for that holy office which he so ar- 
dently desired, but affords much that demands the at- 
tention of young converts, and may be useful to Chris* 
tians in every stage of their progress to heaven ; while 
it exhibits another trait of Mr. Taylor's character, viz. 
his tender solicitude that those who had been brought 
into the church through his instrumentality should be 
eminently pious : 

" NassoAL-HaU, Apnl 5, 1825. 
'* Miss S vah, 

" ' Grace be unto you, and peace, from God the Fa- 
ther, and from our Lord Jesus Christ, who gave him- 
self for our sins, that he might deliver us from this 
present evil world, according to the will of God oui 
Father ; to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.' 

" If an apology for this epistle were necessary, I 
could say, God is my witness how I have ceased not 
in attempting to bring you to Christy by conversation, 



JAMiS BBAUffiRD TAYLOR. 881 

exiiortation, argument, watching, prayers, and tears. 
And now, having come to the Lamb of God that tak- 
eth away the sin of the world, you will doubtless still 
bear with me. 

" But a few days since you were gay, thoughtless, 
and unconcerned ; a lover of pleasure more than a lover 
of God ; averse to serious conversation ; but in the good 
providence, and by the grace of God, you were led to 
think on your ways, to turn your feet to the testimo- 
nies of the Lord, and to make haste and delay not to 
keep his commimdments. If asked whence you came, 
you would answer, ' He brought me also out of a hor- 
rible pit — out of the miry clay — and set my feet upon 
a rock, and established my goings. And he hath put 
a new song into my mouth ; eren praise to our God.' 

" How does that horrible pit and miry clay, whence 
you have professedly come out, appear to you? Could 
I hear your reply, I doubt not it would be, ' O that my 
head were waters, and mine eyes a fountain of tears, 
ihat I might weep day and night over' — ah, you well 
remember what — you remember the years that have 
rolled away — you call to mind the gayety and mirth 
of former days — you remember the misspent hours in 
the fashionable circle — in the ball-room — the misspent 
Sabbaths — the lost opportunities, when you might and 
ought to have turned to God ; and you now see how 
much you have lost by being a votary of the world in- 
stead of yielding obedience to God. O Miss Sarah, 
how much treasure you might have laid up in heaven, 
had you been as active for your soul's salvation as you 
have been to seek your own pleasures ; upon all of 
which you now write 'vanity and vexation of spint.' 

'' Having had your feet set upon tbe tofi^V C»V\vsx^*A 

24* 



262 MEMOIH OP 

I mistake not, yon are not ashamed of Jesus : and why 
should you be ashamed of him 1 Is he not Qod your 
Savior — ^your Redeemer, your all? Is he not your 
Prophet, Priest, and King? Your Shepherd, elder 
Brother, Friend, and Judge ? Ashamed of Jesus ? 

' No, when I blush, be this my shame, 
That I no more revere his name.' 

Sing then of his loving-kindness. His loving-kindness, 
O how free ! how great ! how strong ! how good ! It 
changes not ; may you celebrate it in death, and be- 
yond time. 

" Said the Psalmist^ ^Oome and hear, all ye that 
fear GKid, and I will declare what he hath done for my 
soul.' In secret we may consider and celebrate the 
loving-kindness of the Lord. In public, on proper oc- 
casions, we may declare it forth ; ' for he is good, and 
his mercy endureth for ever.' 

'^ To me the whole duty of man seems to be epito-* . 
mized in this, ' Walk before me and be thou perfect' 
It is more explicit in the following: ' Thou shalt love 
the Lord thy God,' how much ? * with all thy heart, 
and soul, and mind, and strength. And thou shalt love 
thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments 
hang all the law and the prophets.' In giving such a 
command, did not Jesus appreciate the necessity of 
love to God in the highest degree ? Are they not the 
words of Christ himself? O that Christians would du- 
ly consider the privilege of enjoying, not merely for 
an hour, but through life, the degree of love spdten of 
by the beloved disciple. 1 John, 4 : 18. 

"Miss Sarah, how mucYi %o«v^t oxVax^tc^vi Iq«« by 



JAB1E8 BRAINERD TAYLOR. S83 

Standing idle, or wandering away from duty, may it 
be yours — and may it be mine — to press forward into 
the fullness of this love. ' For this cause I bow my 
knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, of 
whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named, 
that he would grant you according to the riches of his 
glory to be strengthened with might by his Spirit m 
the inner man ; that Christ may dwell in your heart 
by faith ; that you, being rooted and grounded in love, 
may be able to comprehend, with all saints, what is 
the length, and breadth, and depth, and height, and to 
know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge, 
that you might be Jilled with all the fullness of God. 
And the very Qod of peace sanctify you wholly. And 
I pray God your whole spirit, and soul, and body be 
preserved blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus 
Christ.' Would the apostle pray for an impossibility ? 
And he adds, ' Faithful is he that calleth you, who also 
will do it.' Belierest thou this 1 According to your 
faith be it unto you. 

" This appears to me to be the reason why souls 
born of God for the most part are no more sanctified : 
they are too soon satisfied with a * name to lire.' They 
forget that there is no truce in this war — that to lay 
down the armor is to be ranquished. Hence, however 
well they may hare begun, laying aside their armor, 
dismissing their watch, neglecting to pray, they are 
overcome, and become again entangled with the world 
•^lose their evidence of pardon — are thrown into dark- 
ness, and delaying to return from their backsliding, 
they wander wretched and forlorn. Shall I ask? But 
how appalling the thought that you shall ever fall from 
your steadfastness ! Miss Sarah, sYiaW ^^Axt ^\q«^v^^«i 



284 MfiMoim OP 

testify against you? Will your heart erer be firosKa 
into the adamantine hardness of some, who were once 
melted into love and tenderness? Shall the hearts ot' 
your praying friends — your Christian friends, who 
haire wept and wrestled on yoor behalf, bleed over 
your loTe of the world? Shall angels witness, after 
your determination to come out from the world, your 
retrograde steps 1 O shall Jesus ever be wounded by 
you, his professed friend and follower? Shall the 
world, who are vratching you with eagles' eyes, 
be gratified with one word or action whereby they 
may triumph ? Shall the church be disappointed — the 
church below, who are looking after a full devotedness 
of yourself to God, both in prosperity and adversity- 
sickness and health — life and death? The church 
above, those angel bands— those blood-washed souls 
in the paradise of God, who are waiting to welcome 
the faithful? 

" Suffer the word of exhortation : — Whatever others 
do or say, (I mean professors of religion,) whatever 
others may think sufficient to bring them to heaven — 
let it be well fixed in your mind that it will cost some- 
thing to be a Christian. Having begun, may you con- 
tinue, and may you end well. To stimulate you to ac 
tion — to urge you on the way — is the object of this 
communication. I need not tell you of my solicitude 
that you should walk worthy of your high vocation : 
you have already had it evinced. ^ Give, then, all dili- 
gence to make your calling and election sure.' Add to 
your faith virtue, and all the Christian graces. ' Love 
not the world, nor.the things of the world.' tC^T ' Be 
clothed vnth humility.^ ' Watch unto prayer.' < Pray 
without ceasing.' * Deny all ungodliness — live sober- 



JAMES BRAIMERD TAYLOR. 285 

ly, righteously, and godly.' ' Deny yourself, take up 
your cross, and follow Christ ;' not like Peter, afar off. 
^ As you received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in 
him.' How was this ? Did you receive him in a state 
of indifference — in unbelief— in love with the world-^ 
in pride — in gayety — without prayer — in self-indul- 
gence ? Go back to that hour — examine the founda- 
tion of your hope — see how you submitted. Follow up 
your course, and see what have been your most pre- 
cious seasons, and then go on accordingly. Finally, 
set high your standard of piety — not higher nor lower 
than the Bible. Seek with all your heart the mind that 
was in Christ Jesus : then you will study to be faith- 
ful to Qod — faithful to yourself— and faithful to all 
around you. 

'^ With solicitude for your best interests, 

" I am, in the bonds of the Gtospel, 
" Yours, &c. 

'* James B. Taylor." 

To the same. 

" April 11, 1825. 

" I thank my Gk)d upon every remembrance of you. 
And this I pray, that your love may abound more and 
more in knowledge and in all judgment — that you may 
approve things that are excellent — that you may be 
sincere and without offence till the day of Jesus Christ ; 
being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are 
by Jesus Christ, to the praise and glory of God 

" I rejoice that, under God, I was the instrument of 
bringing you to Christ. It is, indeed, a cause of hum- 
ble ackBOwledgment to the Father oC \xieT<^\^^ >X!AX\ 



286 MBMom OF 

have been employed and blessed as a co-woiker with 
him. 

" Your prayer to have the wiU of God done, and not 
yours, is one after the pattern of Jesus Christ. And 
who so holy, who so happy, as He who came not to 
do his own will, but the will of him that sent him? 
Be it ours on all occasions to be conformed to the 
will of God. 

" Here I would repeat what you remind me of say- 
ing in my first letter : Press forward into the fullness 
of his love. I trust you will — I pray you may : but do 
not put it off for a suitable occasion. Like other du- 
ties, like other blessings, the time is now. Whence 
issues the voice, delay? From the church aboVe, 
or the church below? Nay, but from hell — from a 
thoughtless world — from soul- damning guides ; from 
nominal, lukewarm professors, the cry is sent forth, 
delay. Alas ! how many hear it and suffer from it. Oi 
you I hope better things. 

" Hungering and thirsting after righteousness, may 
you be filled. 



* Jetutf mjf only hope, thy blood can cleanse 
My deepest stains, and purify my soul 
From all its native and contracted g;ailt ; 
In that clear fountain of immortal life 
Let me be cleansed and thoroughly sanctified. 
I come, a helpless, miserable wretch, 
And throw myseU| and all my future hopes. 
On mercy infinite ; reject me not, 
Thou Savior of the sinful race of man.' — Mrg. 



*' You said you had not conversed much with your 
friends. To do this profttablY^ we need the wisdom of 



JAMES BRAIMEAO TAYLOR. 287 

the serpent and the harmlessness of the dove. Re- 
gard should be had to time, place, persons, and the pe- 
culiar circumstances of individuals. While we may 
not have the opportunity of benefiting others in con- 
versation, yet we may by example. 

" But I think, Miss S , should you fix it as a prin- 
ciple of action for your whole life — for you have en- 
tered upon a life- service — you have enlisted for the 
war — I say, should you fix it as a principle of action 
for life, 80 far as in you lies, to benefit every indi- 
vidual that approaches you, it is probable you would 
not regret it at your dying hour. Look to the everlast- 
ing hills for strength. Perhaps you will conclude that 
you have already bound yourself to this by your oath 
at the communion-table. Be it so ; you need not wish 
the obligation revoked. 

^' At the communion-table ! Ah ! has God, have 
angels and men, beheld you seated at the table of the 
Lord? And, did you sing, 

* Why was I made to hear thy voice, 
And enter while there's room 7' 

And shall I say, be faithful to your vows 1 

" As to doctrines, I would you were established firm- 
ly in ^ the faith once delivered to the saints.' It is all 
in the Bible ; and with this promise : ' Uany man will 
do his will, he shall know of the doctrine whether it 
be of Grod, or whether I speak of myself.' These are 
Christ's words, who says, * Search the Scriptures.' 
And tlie apostle, ' Let the word of Christ dwell in you 
rioUy in kU wisdom.' Like ApoUos, may you be migh- 
If ia<lie[Sknpturcs; and agreeably to IbA \itv)^\ ^^ 



288 MUioia OP 

Christ, be suctified through the truth. O how neon 
8ary to be justified and sanctified; for ^ wiihout kok' 
neas no man shall see the Lord? " 

Soon after writing the above, Mr. Taylor left col- 
lege to spend the spring vacation m assisting the 
llev. N. C. S. in a revival at Rahway, N. J. At his 
arrival he found the work going on, and about fifteen 
persons entertaining the hope that they had passed 
from death unto life. Among this people he labored, 

in conjunction with Mr. S , about five weeks, very 

much to their satisfaction, and with great success. 
During this favored season the number of hopefol 
converts increased from fifteen to seventy or eighty, 
of all ages, from eleven years old to seventy, and of 
every condition in life. 

To his brothers K and J , Mr. Taylor wrote 

two letters from Rahway, giving an account of the 
progress of the work of grace in that town, in which 
he says : 

" I am glad to inform you that the revival is in- 
creasingly interesting. Upwards of sixty have ex- 
pressed hope. Among the young converts is one sixty- 
one years of age ; among the anxious, one of seventy. 

" The child of sixty-one is a mother, who, with her 
two daughters, became anxious on the same day ; and 
on the same day they all expressed hope. This family 
I visited, and they received me cooWy— nay more, they 
were indifferent^ approaching to opposition. But, to our 

surprise, they soon sent for brother S and myself 

to visit them. We went, and found them in deep dis- 
tress. Judge how diiTerently they received us, from the 



JAMGS BRAI?f£RD TAYLOR. "289 

manner in which they received my visit! God bo 
praised. There is no opposition worthy of note. The 
work goes on in solemn stillness. 

" May you all be holy, and without blame, before 
him in love. Aft'ectionately, James.'* 

Upon his return to college he wrote as follows to 
the family at Middle Haddam * 

''Nassaii-Hall, May 10, 1825. 

* * * " I have often thought of your delightful situ 
ation on the hill — I have thought too that you are a 
house on a hill, that cannot be hid. To shine, we need 
lo be covered. 'Be clothed with humility.' To be 
high, we need to get low in the vale, not of dejection, 
but of humility — * Before honor is humility.' 

" Most of my enjoyments flow from a contented 
mind, which, when possessed, is a ' continued feast.' 
Not in the world, nor from the world, but from God, 
through Jesus Christ, we must expect our happiness. 
It is at the feet of Jesus we may find help in every 
time of need. 

" Since my return, the Lord has visited me with 
rich blessings. I hope he is ripening me for his ser- 
vice here, and for his glory hereafter. 

" I think I never took more interest in reading the 

Bible than since I returned. Revivals of religion are 

a happy comment upon the Bible. In reading the Acts 

of the Apostles, read them in reference to revivals. In 

reading the epistles, read them as addressed to young 

converts. 

" As ever, affectionately yours, 

"James B. TkYii3«.T 
25 i,^'^«L^\oT 



290 MEMOIR OP 

To bis diary we are indebted for very much tliat Bit. 
Taylor said, and did, and thought, and felt, giving an 
interesting development of his character, and the more 
tu be relied upon, because it was never designed for 
publication, or even the inspection of his friends. 

Though in the conversions which took place during 

the joint labors of Mr. iS and Mr. 'J aylor at Hah- 

Avay, there is evidence that his eftbrts were much bless- 
ed, yet in this secret record of the matter he lays no 
claim to distinction. 

" May 21.— Went with brother S to Rabway, 

and found that, after his laburs there for about two 
weeks, fifteen had expressed hope. 1 became his as- 
sistant for about five weeks, during which time the 
number was increased to seventy-five or eighty. Will 
God carry on his work, and still own the efforts oi 

brother S in eflecting a greater salvation among 

that people ? 

" During my labors I bad too much hardness while 
M'itnessing the displays of grace, and while God wus 
evidently owning his word. I often felt under the in- 
fluence of lethargy. The Lord, I trust, has forgiven 
mc. But, O ! how much more humble and faithful I 
might have been I There were seasons, indeed, in 
which my heart was broken and contrite. 1 look upon 
thi:j sphere of labor, and this opportunity with brother 

S , as among the happiest, prospectively, in all my 

life. Since my return, God has been gracious to me, 
ani afforded unconmion seasons of communion with 
himself, through Jesus Christ. I have been enabled to 
cast all my burdens on the Lord. 

In my walk this motuin^^ met with a cross. As I 



JAMES BRAIN ERD TAYLOR. 291 

was passing a shop, a man swore by the sacred name 
of God. I passed on. The query arose, ' Shall I let 
this sin go unnoticed V I stopped. Many excuses en- 
tered my mind — whether from the devil or my own 
heart, I cannot determine. At length this Scripture 
presented itself: ' Thou shalt in any wise rebuke thy 
neighbor, and not suffer sin upon him.' I went back, 
called the person by name, and requested an interview. 
We walked aside, where I had a serious talk with him ; 
the result so far was favorable. 

" June 1. — I rejoiced before God that there was an 
eternity to come, in which I might recount his good- 
ness — see him as he is — and associate with saints and 
angels. O how my heart moved at the thought of 
meeting some there who might recognize in me a 
spiritual father ! I would rather live than die, for the 
present ; and this, God knoweth, is from the desire of 
being, if he would qualify me, eminently useful in 
bringing sinners to Christ. Yet if he were to call, I 
would go. Methought, how should I appear, seated 
with the saints in the new Jerusalem. I looked for the 
lowest seat. 

" Among others, my friend L. P came to my 

mind. I think I never before pleaded for him with 
such confidence and submission. My petitions were 
groans which could not be uttered, for his salvation. 
I left him, with myself, in the hands of God. He will 
do right ; and I rejoice that he is on the throne. 

" 6th. — Yesterday, the Sabbath, passed for the most 
part without much feeling in divine things till even- 
ing devotion, when, singing, I made melody in my 
heart to the Lord. 

"June 9. — Evening. — To the houoT o? xVOsi ^tajt^\» 



293 MEMOIR OF 

it recorded, that God, out of his exceeding fullness, 
hath just now visited my soul with salvation. After 
reading the Scriptures, while singing, the thought of 
my having spoken on the stage this evening, when 
] was considerably applauded, entered my mind. 
Thought I, what is this? O! if my faculties might 
be all on God's side, it would be honor. Immediaiely 
my heart broke, and went out, not in self-complacence, 
but in self-abasement. I fell upon my knees, to give 
myself away to God anew. I found I had nothing to 
give. All I am was his already. And besides, I owed 
him ten thousand talents. Then it occurred to me to 
ask of God to consecrate mc wholly to himself, for his 
glory. The petition was too big for utterance ; I groan- 
ed and wept it out. I think I never had such an over- 
powering willingness to spend for God. I felt an un- 
usual resignation to his will: I felt myself in his hand. 
And if at last I should be held up a spectacle to crea- 
tion, as a monument of long-suffering on his part, 
and then be sent to hell, I would wish to bring glory 
10 his name while on earth, 

'' 13th. — Brother S having left the people at 

Rahway, O how I longed to, be with them for a sea- 
son ! But I cannot. I cast them and myself upon the 
Lord, and he bestowed a rich blessing upon me. I 
sunk into insignificance, while God was exalted above 
all." 

While thus breathing out his affectionate soul in be- 
half of the lambs of the flock at Rahway, Mr. Taylor 
addressed to them the following communication : 



lAMEB BRAINEBD TAYLOH.r- ^7 ^^ 

U who 

' names 

*• To the band of young converts in Rcu d con- 

'B«ioTed, p, and 

" My having seen some of you when dead iii luke- 
passes and in sins, and afterwards when awd^ags 
ed, anxious, and rejoicing, I presume will be a siKpd 
cient apology for this epistle. But besides this, I miglf- 
assure you that the love of Christ constraineth me. 
The Christian affection and solicitude I feel towards 
you all draw me \ and my regard for your best inter- 
ests calls forth a line from my pen. 

"Addressing an epistle to young converts^ the 
apostle said among other things — ' As ye have there- 
fore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him ; 
rooted and built up in him, and established in the faith, 
as ye have been taught, abounding therein with thanks- 
givings.' Col. 2 : 6, 7. Let me ask: How did you re- 
ceive the Lord Jesus Christ? In impenitence, unbe- 
lief, and rebellion ? or in contrition, faith, and submis- 
sion ? Was it in pride, love of the world, sensuality, 
anger, malice, or envy ? Or in humility, forsaking 
the world, a crucifying the flesh with its affections and 
lusts? Was it with a determination to live in sin, 
and so dishonor God ? or with the fixed, unalterable 
determination to wage war with sin, to overcome sin, 
and to honor God by forsaking every sin 7 Methinks 
I hear one and another say, ' You have touched a point 
in my experience. Thv^ it was I received Christ 
Jesus the Lord.' What a combination of appellation 
and office is wound up in the name of the Son of God ! 
Christ — ^anointed, sent and set apart to execute his 
office as mediator; Jesus — Savioi •, Lord — ^Nicift^x^'^ivft* 

25* 



292 ^oia OP 

it rec< /hen you received hini, did yon 

hath I 294 ' ^^^^ ^^ ^^^ ^^^^ offices ? Then 

readir Here, as in a journey, before we 

my h tor get in the way. 

] wa tad built up in him.' In this we see the 

Tli(^ Ting confirmed Christians. A tree should 

be^^ ot, for two reasons : that it may outstand 

i;» "^ . n, and that it may receive the more nourish- 

1 house built on a sandy foundation is in 

of soon falling. The hope not founded on the 

i. Christ Jesus the Lord, will be soon swept 

,..vay. 

" ^ And established in the faith.' Are there babes in 
Christ ? so are there young and old men in Christ. As 
one is born, not always to remain a babe, but to grow 
up to manhood, so babes in Christ should grow up into 
Christ to the stature of perfect men. Once the wide- 
spread oak was shut up in the acorn ; afterwards it 
shot above the earth ; now it attracts the notice of the 
eye. 

^' ^ In the laith as ye have been taught.' Besides the 
experience of others, you have the witness within 
yourselves to testify to the doctrines of the Bible. As 
high as the Bible, and no higher, are we to set our 
standard of believing. With the Bible in our hand, 
and God's teaching, we may come at the truth as it 
is in Jesus. 

" * Abounding therein with thanksgiving.' That 
there is such a thing as being deficient, nay empty, in 
religious experience, look at professors of religion here 
and there. Do you find them all ^ full of faith and of 
the Ho.y Ghost ?' Do you find a family altar in every 
bouse where religion is piofe^aedl Do ^ou behold I§- 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 295 

raelites indeed, in whom there is no guile, in all who 
go around the communion-table, and have their names 
in the church book? Judge ye of the walk and con- 
versation of many who bear the Christian name, and 
ask, ^ Shall I too be a deficient, empty, formal, luke- 
warm disciple V Ah, my friends, I hope better things 
of you. I hope God, angels, and saints in heaven, and 
the church on earth, will witness in you a walk ac- 
cording to godliness ; a firmness and stability of cha- 
racter worthy of such a hope, such a profession, such 
obligations as yours. And then you will abound too 
in thanksgiving that your eyes were open to see, your 
ears unstopped to hear, and your heart broken to feel 
the joys of sins forgiven. 

"Having just entered upon the race, you have it to 
run, 'run with patience.' Having to fight, 'put on the 
whole armor of God;' for the world, the flesh, and 
the devil are arrayed against you. Are you discour- 
aged ? Does your soul draw back at the distance ? at 
the contest ? Why art thou cast down ? Satan would 
have you so. The world, who are looking at and 
watching you with an eagle's eye, would have you 
draw back, or fall back from your steadfastness. But 
' give no place to the devil.' Come out from the world 
and say, ' In the name of the Lord, I will destroy them 
all :' fqr, through Christ strengthening him, wliat can- 
not the Christian do? And does not the assurance 
soi^nd from the word, ' My grace is sufficient for thee V 

"You recollect the season of our last interview. I 
tnink I shall never forget it. It was apparently a hea- 
reuly place in Christ Jesus. And have you found the 
' God of love and peace ' with you ? I doubt not that 
you have, if you have been of 'one mind'' \^ ^ifc^'<a^ 



296 MEMOIR OF 

high attainment in the divine life, ' adding to your 
faith virtue,^ and have kept all the Christian graces in 
exercise. And if you still ^grow in grace and in the 
knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christy* 
you will abound more and more in the consolations of 
the Gospel. For the sake of Christ, then — for the sake 
of the church, which is his body, and which he has 
purchased with his own blood, and for which he in- 
tercedes — for the sake of your pastor, who prays for 
your prosperity — and for the sake of those who hart 
labored among you — and for your own sakes, I pray 
you to be uncommon Christians ; that is, be emineatr 
lyholp^s elf-denying — cross-bearing-— Bible — every^ 
day Christians, 

" You may walk in Christ, be ' rooted and built up 
in him? You may ' exercise yourselves unto godli- 
ness, and be perfect, of one mind, live in peace, be ot 
good comfort, and have the Grod of love and peace with 
you.' It is that to which every one of you may attain. 
It is — O yes, it is your high privilege — yes, it is your 
duty to attain unto it; and moreover, it is for youria- 
terest ; for when are you the happiest, when worldly 
or spiritual, when earthly or heavenly-minded ? Shall 
I repeat what you have so often assented to as duty, 
and in the performance of which your souls have been 
so much blessed ? I mean, shall I say, live to God in 
secret — examine your hope — try your experience? 
Leave these duties unperformed for a day or a week, 
and see where you would be found. Rather, would I 
say, do not try the experiment ; for it has undermined 
many hopes, nay, is one strong evidence of a bad hope ; 
riz. the neglect of duty, and this neglect unattended 
with remorse and leueYred s^\ya:d&^\»i&. \q God. 



JAMES BRAIMERD TAYLOR. 297 

" Shall I repeat, that the cords of Christian affec- 
tion bind me to yon ? The remerabrance of you has 
associated with it some of my sweetest moments : and 
I have rejoiced in the thought that an eternity is to 
come, in which I shall have the opportunity of seeing 
you, and rejoicing with you. Until then, if we con- 
verse no more on earth, we will hope to meet around 
our Father's board, and sing * Hallelujah for ever and 
ever.' 

" I presume you continue to meet for social prayer 
and praise as usual. May you be knit together more 
and more — may your hearts be united to fear, to love, 
and serve the Lord. Not only for yourselves must you 
feel interested, but for those with whom you are asso- 
ciated. Your affectionate but infirm pastor, whom you 
cherish with new emotions, calls for your prayers; 
your pious friends — your companions whom you left 
behind, to take their pleasure in the world — ^your fathers 
and mothers — your children — your brothers and sisters, 
who are left while you have been taken. O! how 
much have you to do ; and what you would .do for God, 
for yourselves, for your pious and for your ungodly 
friends, must be done quickly, for ' the time is short? 
Soon, you will go hence — soon, they will be here no 
more. Who of us would see a friend or relative of 
ours go down under the wrath of God ? Ah ! when 
the sound \farewell ' shall echo at the bar of God 
— when an impenitent child shall take a last linger- 
ing look of a pious saved parent, and sigh 'farewell' 
— when parents shall sink from the view of pious 
children — when brothers and sisters shall part to 
meet no more, may we stand spotless, and with 



29S iuxoiB or 

their blood liacgiog aboat us. Finally', let our soag 
ever be, 

* I'll try to proTe faithful, 

* Till we all arrive at home. 

" Yours, m the best of bonds, 

"James B. Taylor." 

This address to yoang converts su^ests some 
thoughts which are worthy of the practical regard, not 
only of those who are just commencing the Christian 
life, but of ministers and older Christians. 

Xo one. who has his senses so exercised as to be 
capable of judging in the case, can be blind to the 
melancholy truth, that the cause of the Redeemer has 
suffered sadly from the want of that deep toned con- 
sistent piety which is attainable by ever)' one who has 
been born from above. The opinion has indeed pre- 
vailed to a great extent, and is still entertained by 
many, that the freshness and fervor of the first love of 
young Christians must of necessity pass away, and 
give place to darkness, and uncertainty, and coldness 
Most disastrous have been the effects of this opinion 
upon the growth in holiness and usefulness of the 
church ; and instead of shining brighter and brighter 
to the perfect day, her light has been often obscured, 
her hopes enfeebled, and her influence neutralized. 
Instead of a vigorous, healthful action, her conduct 
has been fitful, and her very life an alternation of 
spasm and collapse ; at one time, all zeal and devoted- 
Des3, and again chilling all around with indifference. 

Now it is perfectly manifest that neither the apos- 



JAMES BRAINEHD TAYLOR. 299 

ties nor their Master ever countenanced or encouraged 
such a life in his followers. "Nevertheless," said our 
Lord to the church of Ephesus, " I have somewhat 
against thee, because thou hast left thy first love. Re- 
member therefore from whence thou art fallen, and re- 
pent, and do the first works : or else I will come unto 
thee quickly, and remove thy candlestick out of his 
place, except thou repent." In this passage we have 
set before us the evil and the remedy. If a declension 
in the fervor of piety and the strength of faith — if leav- 
ing their first love, by Christians, must be repented of^ 
then is such conduct ofiensive to God, prejudicial to 
his cause, and injurious to the souls of men. Every 
sin is ofiensive to God — but this sin necessarily pre- 
judices his cause with sinners, and consequently in- 
jures their souls ; and the only remedy is repentance. 
But every Christian has a security against this evil, 
in the abundant grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, which, 
according to divine promise, may be attained through 
faith, and watchfulness, and prayer. Let every Chris- 
tian, therefore, come boldly to the throne of grace, that 
he may obtain mercy and find grace to help in the time 
of need. 

Until the church shall unlearn the lesson so often 
taught by good, but mistaken fathers and mothers in 
Israel, that the excitement attended upon conversion 
miist be succeeded by dq)ression and doubt — until mi- 
nisters and members of the-church practically learn that 
their power of doing good is in proportion to their holi- 
ness — there is no reason to expect the universal tri- 
umph of the cause of truth and righteousness. It is 
impossible that the wise and benevolent King of Zion 
ttbould ever subdue the world to MmseVl \\vTavw;^\>X\% 



300 MEMOIR or 

co-operation of a people so imperfectly sanctified as is 
the present generation of Christians ; nor does it seem 
at all consistent with His infinite fitness to govern, to 
impress the present character of the church, in which 
there is such a mixture of pride, and selfishness, and 
Avorldliness, and the spirit of contention, upon this 
earth's entire population. How important then the in- 
structions given by Mr. Taylor to young converts! 
How necessary that they grow up from their very 
birth "unto the measure of the stature of the fullness 
of Christ." 

In the same strain and the same spirit is the follow- 
ing extract of a letter to a young lady in T , to 

v/hom Mr. Taylor sustained the endeared relation of 
spiritual father : 

*'June 17, 1825. 

" As you may conclude, I was glad to hear of your 
prosperity. As you are pleased to recognize in me 
the instrument, wider God, of awaking you from car- 
nal security, and of leading you to the Lamb of God, 
you rightly judge that I feel something of the solici- 
tude attendant upon such a relation. And not only for 
you, but for others scattered up and down, near and 
remote. When the husbandman cultivates his field, he 
is more or less anxious until his expections are re- 
alized. 

" I need not tell you that I have rejoiced over the 
lambs of the flock of Jesus, the good Shepherd. And 
perhaps I should not tell you that I have wept in se- 
cret places, for fear that some might turn aside — some 
who have expressed a hope, and so wound the cause 
of Christ, Yes, my heaxl Vwi^ \Aft^ vcw \S\^ \wxiet cham- 



JAMES BRAIMERD TATLOR. 301 

berS) my soul has agonized for the prosperity of those 
whom I have seen once dead m trespasses and sins, 
and afterwards awakened and hopefully born again. 
My heart's desire and prayer to God for them is, that 
they ail might be holy, harmless^ and undefiled. Is 
kolineaa stamped on your heart? Is holiness to the 
Lord, as the grand characteristic of your thoughts, 
words, and actions, carried out and made to stand 
forth in all the relations of life ? Are you as harmless 
as a dove 1 Are you unspotted ' from the world V 

" May you be lilie a tree planted by the river's side 
—be rooted in Christ — rooted, that you may both draw 
nourishment from, and stand firm in Christ Jesus." 

Diary, "June 19. — Another standard-bearer in Zion 
hath fallen — Summerfield is no more. Hath fallen? 
is no more 7 But he hath ascended to his Father, and 
lives in the Paradise of God. I have read once and 
again two letters of his addressed to my friend Mr. 
A. They are fraught with Christian love. The 
thought that the hand that wrote them is now entomb* 
ed in the grave, and the spirit that dictated them now 
ranges the sweet fields above, was melting to my soul. 
Well : for the Lord hath done all things well, and now 
reigns. He hath joined those who have gone before. 
What interviews may he have already had with Wes- 
ley, and Whitefield, and Fletcher, and Spencer, and 
Martyn, and the innumerable company ! And shall 1 
join the heavenly band ? I think I never before had 
such humiliating views of myself as for weeks past, 
while the Lord has been favoring me with the com* 
munications of his love. And if, after all, I should 
enter heaven^ the thought occuxtcOL vWx \?cv^ ^xx^'ax 



302 MEMOIR OF 

place for me would be to be raised to some contpicn- 
ous point in the midst of the adoring throng, as an 
everlasting spectacle of swperabounding grctce.^ 

To a Minister of the Gospel. 

" Nassau HaU, July 13, 182& 
**• Brother beloved, 

" Your letter, which I have read again and again, 
came to hand about a week after its date, and it re- 
freshed me. 

" Indeed I have sympathized with you, and I still 
could weep with you under your various trials. But 
our sympathizing High Priest, who hath gone into the 
heavens, can better be touched with a feeling of yonr 
infirmities, having been tempted in all points as we are. 
Was Peter's wife's mother sick of a ferer ? Peter's 
friend was there to heal. Was the house at Bethany 
afflicted ? The friend of Lazarus, of Mary, and Martha, 
was there to weep with the latter, and over the tomb 
of the former. I need not tell ray dear brother that 
Jesus is virtually present, and that in him all fullness 
dwells. Yes, he is an attendant upon your compa- 
nion — he watches over her for good — cherishes her 
spiritual health, and is thus maturing her to the sta- 
ture of one perfect in Christ Jesus. The Vine Dres- 
ser holds the pruning knife, and with consummate 
skill severs one exuberant branch after another, till 
the tree may appear well nigh shorn of its beauty. 
Soon, the roots being imbedded in a soil watftred by 
the river of God, branches more fresh and green will 
put forth ; and if permitted to remain in the garden be- 
low, it will flourish, bud, blossom, and bear the choic- 
est fruit; if transp\awXe\\ \c^ v\\^«'\\^^\i'\Vic^^«. it will 



JAMES BBAINERD TAYLOR. 303 

bloom and bear fruit for ever. And shall we oomplam 
that he removes a plant from a poorer to a richer soil 
— frum the shade to the sunshine ? 

** Think it not strange, my brother, when all that 
are combined against you level their force against 
your honest intentions to do the work of an evangelist; 
for remember the case of our Elder Brother, who 
went about doing good. Even Peter assumed the of- 
fice of dictator, and began to rebuke him, saying, ^ Be 
it far from thee, Lord.' Is it not sufficient that the 
servant (J'ouxoc) be as his master 1 — Remember too the 
great Apostle Paul, when with one accord they be- 
sought him not to go up to Jerusalem. * Then Paul 
answered, what mean ye to weep and to break my 
heart? for I am ready not to be bound only, but al- 
so to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Je* 
sus? Paul would not be persuaded : neither let my 
brother be persuaded, until convinced by Him who 
hath put him into the ministry. And let him count it 
all joy to suffer for Christ's sake. Only get on ^ the 
whole armor,' and then, though a host encamp against 
you, in the Lord you will do valiantly. 

" If you do not enjoy the light of God's countenance, 
then must you be in double agony. I would that you 
were filled all the day long with faith and with the 
Holy Ghost. I need not suggest it — but so I find it — 
to come to a solemn pause, and get near to the Lord, 
serves as a thousand arguments against the world, 
the fiesh, and the devil. May you experience more 
and yet more of the love of God. In carrying you and 
your interests to God, I have at times enjoyed liberty 
and nearness of access. 

" I am reading, with interest, Edwaid^ o\ixV% KS»^ 



304 MEUOU OF 

tions, speak regularly once a week in the African 
church, and meet on Monday evening the young con- 
verts. I think I take an increased interest in reading 
the Bible. The world and its honors dwindle into 
the shade more and more. May I ever cherish the dis- 
position, God being my keeper, to spend my all m 
turning sinners to the Shepherd and Bishop of souls. 

A Christian salutation to Mrs. . As always, yours, 

" James B. Taylor •' 

To the same. 

" Nassau HaU, Sept. 1, 183&. 
** Dearly beloved Brother, 

^4 am sorry on your account, that so much darkness 
pervades your soul. You need to walk in the light, 
for many reasons — for your own comfort, for the com- 
fort of others, for the glory of God, and for the edifica- 
tion of the body of Christ, which is the church. 

" I have testified to you verbally, and by letter, con- 
cerning some of the blessings God has vouchsafed to 
me. Of all the blessings in the house of my pilgnm- 
age, one experienced last evening was perhaps the 
greatest. I will not attempt, with pen and ink, to de- 
scribe it. Help me, my loving brother, help me to 
praise the Lord." 

" Sept. 22, 1825. 

" James to his dearly beloved and afllicted brother. 
Little did I expect to receive the intelligence I did this 
morning of your illness. Think it not strange, my 
dear brother, that you are ftick ; ' for whom the Lord 
lovelh, he chasteneth.' Try to receive this visitation, 
as among your ^ all things *,' aud ^We thanks^ ^ for this 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 305 

^8 the will of God, in Christ Jesus, concerning you.' 
Perhaps my brother is not so much alarmed about his 
body, as he is solicitous that his affliction may be sanc- 
tified. Truly this should concern us most ; for let 
what will befall the outer man, if the inner man be re- 
newed day by day, we shall grow strong for eternity 
whither we constantly tend. Are you tossed and not 
comforted 1 Do you spend wearisome days and tedi- 
ous nights 1 I have been weeping and wrestling in 
prayer for you. While looking upward for myself, I 
remembered you ; for how could I forget one to whom, 
under God, I am so much indebted, and to whom I 
bear a weight of love? I thought of asking for your 
health, your life ; for I saw beside you, your E., and 
around you, your children ; I saw you an elder in an 
infant church, and exerting, as I hoped, a happy influ- 
ence along the path of life ; yet for all this I could on- 
ly say, * The will of the Lord be done.' My weeping 
and wrestling for you, my dear brother, was according 
to the will of God, that you might be holy and with- 
out blame before him in love ; that if your soul was 
beclouded, the Sun of righteousness might arise upon 
you ; that our Captain would drive back the enemy, 
and give you the victory ; for this was all I could ask 
for myself.. I saw, moreover, that though your life 
appeared in many respects to be needful, yet for you, 
as well as myself, another life was in reserve, to en- 
ter upon which we must die. Is there a mansion for 
us in the skies, and shall we not enter in 1 Is it the 
Father's good pleasure to give us the kingdom, and 
shall we not possess it? To me earth is no way de- 
sirable but to live for God. And let me t^VV ^q>\^\!&2^ 
inflate I bare thought myself ueai nrj xe^x\xi%-^^^^« 

26* 



S06 MEMOIB OP 

I Lave been brought into so close a fellowship with 
God, that I knew not but I was breathing' out my soul, 
to fly away. Yes, and it is the ecame»t^ the Jbretatte 
of glory which the Lord has given me, that lifts me 
on high. 

" The Lord is, I think, preparing me either to be 
more useful, or to take me to heaven. His will, not 
mine, be done. 

'*lt may be that my dear brother rests under the 
smiles of our heavenly Father. Let us then cling 
close to the hope that is within us, stand firm at our 
station, endure with patience, fight valiantly. For this 
we must prepare in the inner chamber ; with God in 
secret the harness is generally put on, and for the 
most part with weeping and contrition. May our 
hearts be bruised and healed, so that we shall be 
* without spot or wrinkle, or any such thing.' 

'* Should you be apprehensive that you shall leave 
us soon, let my brother do the work he would do. Be 
faithful to me — be faithful to E.«-be faithful to your 
family, to your minister, to all. 

^^Let your house be set in complete order. Seek 
for a clear, undoubting evidence of your acceptance* 
Stop not short of meetness for glory and glorified so* 
ciety. ' Without holiness no man shall see the Lord.' 
The very God of peace sanctify you wholly. And I 
pray God your whole soul, and body, and spirit may 
be preserved blameless unto the coming of the Lord 
Jesus. Faithful is he who has called you ; who also 
will do it. Only seek him with your whole heart 

" Holiness captivates my soul. It is this that gives 

the character of God its glory, in my view. It is <Asf 

that makes the charactei of ai^i^c^ft vii^ ^v%ei£&^\ni 



JAMES BRAUIERD TATLOS. 907 

spirits lovely in contemplation. It is this that makes 
heaven desirahle. And it is this that illumes my soul, 
and allies it to the most holy on earth. My cry is. 
Lord, give me wisdom and holiness. And let this be 
the burden of your prayer for me — that I may be wise 
to win souls, and holy to enter heaven. 

" Let me comfort myself, saith Edwards, that it is 
the very nature of afflictions to make the heart better ; 
and if I am made better by them, what need I be con- 
cerned how grievous they may seem for the present ?" 



CHAPTER VL 
Last Tear in College* 

^ To a Lady in feeble health. 

"Ort. 26, 1825. 

" Acknowledging the receipt of your epistle, which 
came to hand a few days since, I am constrained to 
comply with your request, * write to me,* With the 
other, which was, ^pray for me,' I have just complied, 
with tears and strong cries. 

'^ Blessed be the Beloved that he has proved him- 
self your elder brother — a friend always near. How 
relieving — O, how unburdening to the soul, is a gush 
of tears — sweet tears of love and gratitude ! they have 
just flowed from my weeping eyes. 

" I am glad that your spirit was refreshed by the 
coming of Christian friends ; and fot t.lL«.\t ^Qrci<^«x:^\sn. 
iMfth f0u and me* Let as not ibkik \\ «tc«:&%^> ^^^^'^tw^ 



i 



308 MEMOIR OP 

we see the image of Christ reflected more brightlf iB 
the walk and conversation of some of his disciples 
than others, we are tempted to chide ourselves for not 
loving^ all equally. It is indeed written — 'By this 
shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have 
love one towards another ;' and ' we know that wt 
have passed from death to life, because we love the 
brethren.' But the question is, Who is my brother? 
Is it one who has been baptized ? goe*i to the comma- 
niou- table? talks a&ot^ religion ? Our Savior tells 
us — * Whosoever shall do the will of my Father which 
is in heaven, the same is my brother J 

^^ Instead of adding one pain to your already acca- 
mulated sufferings, I would relieve you of all — ex- 
change your weakness for strength — your confinement 
for the pleasant fields. But, I apprehend, the days of 
my sister, if not already gone by, are soon to be num- 
bered. This I know does not alarm you. You are 
conversant with the dying hour in anticipation. 

^^ I am seated where, by a turn of the head, I have 
a beautiful prospect. I can overlook a village once 
the scene of labors both interesting and profitable. 
There was a revival there three years ago last spring 
the fruits still appear. It reminds me of the latter day, 
when all shall know the Lord. The fields and trees 
that meet my eye cause me to sing, 

* Sweet fields beyond the swelliDg flood, 
Stand dress'd in living groen.' 

** And the river that flows by, lifts the thoughts to 
the ' pure river of the water of life^ clear as crystal, 
proceeding out of the throne of God and the Lamb' 
The grazing sheep and their fold speak, in associa- 

1, oithe good BteiAx«^i^Di^^'^^^^^^^^^^'^^» 



JAHES BBAIMERD TAYLOR. 309 

'^ The sun has sunk beneath the horizon to illumine 
anotJier hemisphere. Ere long our sun shall go down : 
may it set to rise resplendent in a better, brighter 
world. ^ They that be wise shall shine as the sun ; 
and they that turn many to righteousness, as the stars 
for ever and ever.' How happy his lot who takes his 
departure to meet the souls whom, under God, he has 
sent to heaven ! O, there is meaning beyond expres- 
sion in what my soul hath felt in this view !-— Pray, 
still pray, that a great company of sinners, redeemed 
from among men, may at last praise God for my in- 
strumentality. May you be among the wise that trin 
souls, 

" The blowing of the wind reminds me of the sailor- 
boy, perhaps, far offat sea, becalmed, or wafted by the 
breeze, or tossed by the tempest ; now he mounts up 
to heaven, then goes down again to the depths. Let 
our sails be wide spread to catch every breeze of hea- 
ven ; nor need we take in when the gales of grace blow 
upon them. As one watches the pole-star to prove 
ills course correct, so let us look to Jesus, the author 
and finisher of our faith. Thus we shall run clear — 
make our voyage — enter the haven fully laden-— cast 
anchor, and lie safely moored for ever. 

'^ I thank God for his goodness in permitting an ac- 
quaintance between souls so congenial, in this the 
house of our pilgrimage. Our communion has been 
holy ; be it perpetuated above. I think I was enabled 
to acquiesce in the will of God. I could, and in a de- 
gree unknown before, bless him for making us mutual 
blessings. That you had been made a blessing to me, 
did not seem so strange ; but that I should have been 
mode a blessinjr to you, seems stxavij^e uidA^^* "^^Oi^^ 



310 MEMOIR or 

Lord knowelh the mean view I hare of myself. If 
alive, (for I know not but I was thinking of one in 
heaven,) I wrestled for heaven's blessing to descend 
and abide with you; and I was blessed in pleading for 
my dear sister, to whom, as never before, did I feel a 
binding of soul in Christian fellowship. 

'•' From this situation, so pleasant, I could descry a 
scenery more captivating than any seen by mortal eye. 
Through faith, I took a view of the house not made 
with hands, and anticipated the day when I should at 
least hear you sing, and see you bow before the throne. 
Yes, my sister, if I should be at a distance, do you 
strive to get near the throne. 

''You recollect 1 mentioned one whose soul seems 
full of love. O for a host of self-denying, cross-bear- 
ing, humble, Bible sons and daughters of the Lord 
Almighty. 

"It rains — may a shower of grace come to you. 
May the Holy Ghost descend in his influences upon you 
like drops of dew. May you be as a well- watered gar- 
den, producing abundantly the fruits of righteousness. 

" I was asked to-night, by a minister, ' \V hat is sav- 
ing faith V I answered him in holy language : - It is 
that faith which worketh by love, purifieth the heart, 
and overcometh the world.' How exemplified is this 
faith in some Christians ! Alas, that they are so rare. 
Let these characteristics of the devoted servant of God. 
and all the lineaments of the dear Redeemer, be man- 
ifested in us. If there should be but one on earth, 
ought yotc not to be the one, who should have the 
whole mind of Christ? Then would be seen in your 
every relation of life, what proves the reality, beauty 
and excellency of the leVvgvoiL^ou^ito^ft^^.^^ 



JAMSS BRAINEKD TATLOB. 311 

The following letter, addressed principally to the 
wife of a beloved brother when she was expected to 
die, is so full of piety, and faith, and love, that no one 
can read it, with a serious mind, without admiring the 
writer, or rather the grace of God in him. 

'• Nov. 17, 1825. 

"Your letter, dear brother, came this morning, with 
intelligence which I did not at all expect. Shall I tell 
you the train of thought it excited ? — That you would be 
companionless — your children motherless — that R.'s 
happy spirit, like an uncaged bird, would fly away^ 
and be at rest. 

" Were you, my dear brother, were you, as some are, 
I would not write as I do. * But ye, who were some 
time darkness, are now light in the Lord.' And I 
■write this for your comfort. And if your dear wife 
and my dear sister be alive, and you think it for her 
comfort, read it to her, as perhaps the last epistle of 
James to her, just going into eternity. 

" I will address it to her. Sister R., dear sister, 
forgive all my unfaithfulness to you, and once more 
pray that I may be blessed with holiness and wisdom. 
Little did I think of your being the^r*^ of our house* 
hold that would probably be called aw^ay. Little did 
I think that you would be the Jirst to enjoy the privi- 
lege of entering heaven. 

"It is taken. for granted that your soUl is prepared 
for its exit. This is what each one must be concern- 
ed about for himself; for as you know, as individuah^ 
we stand accountable to Grod for our conduct here; as 
individuals we must die, and as individuals we must 
h% judged. 

"Persuaded of your acceptaxiee v\vio\x^ CXxtviX^ 



312 UEMom OF 

stand, stand Jirmly. Throwing yourself into the amu 
of Jesus, wait, wait patiently. Leaning on the bosoo 
of Jesus, fear no harm ; for he hath said^ ' If I go awaf, 
I will come again and receive you unto myself.' 

^'When I remember that God has an economy cf 
grace, as well as of nature — that the kingdom of grace 
is governed by a holy King, himself the Lawgiver, 
I am consoled ; for certain I am that he will act so as to 
constrain all his subjects to see that he hath clone all 
things well. Hence, my sister, should he call yoa 
away, I cannot but acquiesce, and say, ' The Lord 
reigneth.' However much you are beloved on earth, 
you would go where you would be loved much more — 
CDJoy 9. holy society in a holy place, and be employed 
in rendering a perfect service to your God and mine. 
Hence — however much /love you, and were it the will 
of God, I would detain you here long — I would be the 
first lo sing, though with streaming, eyes, 

* 'Tis finishM, the conflict is past, 

The heaven-born spirit is fled, 
Her wish is accomplish'd at last, 

And now she's entombM with the dead : 
The months of affliction are o'er, 

The days and the nights of distress; 
We see her in anguish no more ; 

She's gained her Jiappy release/ 

" Should I hear of your death, I would look up and 
thank God, that now, instead of earth, paradise is yours. 
I would think of you as a happy spirit that had enter- 
ed ' through the gale into the city.' Having overcome, 
and being seated with Christ on his throne, you would, 
as a spirit, commune with God — commune with an- 
gels who are ministering spirits — commune with saints 
whoJiBye gone up ihrougYv gt^^xu^\x\^\:\wi.,i!cii^xc\ia 



ivho^fe g 



JAME3 BRAINBRD TAYLOR* 313 

are the spirits of the just made perfect. Think, too, 
of some of yoar friends who have died in the faith— 
of those who follow after, but above all of Jesus, whom 
you shall see as he is. 

" When on the Mount Zion above, whether you 
shall look down on things below or not, think of James, 
and praise the name of the Lord for the blessings I 
have received — the earnest of the heavenly rest. What 
the employments of the saints are, you will know more 
particularly ^ when on Zion you stand.' Of^^i>yoa 
may be as certain as you are certain that you are a 
child of God — you shall behold a wonderful sight. 
* Father,' said Jesus, * I will that they whom thou hast 
given me, be with me where I am, that they may be^ 
hold my glory? 

'^ To comfort you and your afflicted husband, re* 
member the laws of the kingdom : ' Thy statutes have 
been my song in the house of my pilgrimage.' How 
often was this the case with David in his affliction. 
One law of the kingdom is, that the subjects of Zion's 
King must enter heaven — but he, even our God and 
King, hath reserved to himself the right of ordering 
for his subjects. Would we be at our own disposal? 
We feel safest in his hand. Then as it is appointed to 
men once to die, who can rightly designate the time 
and circumstances 1 God, who sees the end from the 
beginning ; or we, who know not what a day may bring 
forth 1 Be comforted ; let not your heart be troubled. 
I hope to have a mansion too. Then, whether you or 
I be called first, seeing that the will of God is done, 
what should we be concerned about but a full prepa- 
ration for heaven ? 

••If you recoveTj we will be tlianli!L&]\« \^'^cvl^^» 

27 i.'ft.t^iVR. 



may jaa be calmly dismissed, or go with a shoot, as 
it is appointed. As the entranee is mttnafered, is it 
not all one whether we die calmly or ezultingly ? la 
this, as other things, let the will of the Lord be done. 
1 am glad that you can give ap yoor family ; if in the 
hands of the Lord, they are safe. And surely they 
are at his disposal, as we are ourselves. 

" Finally, my sister — my sbter, with whom I have 
sung, with whom I have prayed and wept — fareweU-*- 
we love one another till death — dying, I will not for- 
get thee — I will remember all your sisterly affection— 
your kind hospitality ; and when my work shall be 
done, I will hope to meet you at the right hand of God 
— An affectionate adieu. If you have a dying message 
for me, leave it with J. 

" Brother, in conclusion, I think all I can say on this 
occasion, is, the will of the Lord be done. The wave 
may yet roll back upon you great things which you 
have not known. This may be the vehicle in which 
shall be conveyed the greatest blessings : only trust in 
God. ^Be still, and know that I am God,' saith Je- 
hovah. He hath been with you ; and although clouds 
and darkness are round about him, yet justice and 
judgment are the habitation of his thrdne. There- 
fore be not faithless, but believing. Look for a Jiappif 
issue out of all your troubles. 

^^ Your sympathizing brother, 

"James." 

To his brother and sisters F., E., and A., then at 

New-Haven. 

** Nassau Hall, Dec. % 182&. 

^ You have doubtless iLuoTrxi xVl^ ^toxsix^^ ^^%\&tAc IL's 



JAMES BRAINERD tATLOR. 3f5 

illness. On the Wednesday previous to my leaving 
Princeton for New- York, brother J. wrote, ' Probably 
before this reaches you our dear R. will commence the 
song of angels.' I answered this letter, and addressed 
one to her, which was read to her, and she was melt- 
ed to tears. * O,' said she, ' I love James ; tell him 
from me, that now I can go with him into heaven : noi 
until this affliction could I see as he saw, but now I 
can rise with him to the top of Pisgah.' I say not 
these things to exalt myself, but to magnify the grace 
of God. 

"Her room appeared to be filled with the glory of 
Godj and her soul to be lighted up with the brightness 
of his coming. She was Rifull liberty, 'If the Son 
shall make you free, you shall be free indeed.' She 
could say in a higher sense than before, * I waited pa- 
tiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me and heard 
my cry. He brought me up also out of a horrible pit, 
out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock, and 
established my goings; and he hath put a new song 
into my mouth, even praise to my God.' 

" Before this she had very composedly taken leave 
of all. Her husband had received her dying message, 
and apparently heard her sigh the last adieu. Her 
children listened to her dying counsel ; on the verg^ 
of eternity she spoke to all, and they were melted to 
tears. 

** Wednesday night there was a favorable change. 
And it was when man had given her up — when she 
had rejoiced in the prospect of being in eternity in an 
liQQr — when the shroud and the coffin were full in view, 
that God interposed. He spake, and it was doQ,e« 



310 MEMoiB or 

'Back from the borders of tiie gjmw 
At thy command she's come ; 
Nor did she urge a speedier flight 
To her celestial home.* 

" Yoa will conclade tlTat I enjoyed a pleasant 
son with her, in our conyerse, and in songs of praise 
and prayer. Indeed it was a 'green pasture,' where 
were fed not only those who were around her more 
immediately, bat other sheep of the same fold went 
in and out and found pasture. Upon this green spot 
— green, because of the divine influence in the show- 
ers of grace and the shining of the 'Sun of righteous- 
ness' — upon this green spot there was herbage, of 
which the pastor also partook and was refreshed. The 
circle in which they moved was tenderly affected, and 
seemed awake to set their house in order. To brother 
J. it has been a glorious visitation. With his compa- 
nion, he seemed neither above nor below the will of 
God. To mother it has been, as she expressed it, in 
all her grief a happy season. To our father it has 
proved a time of refreshing. To me it has been the 
occasion of setting my affections on things above yet 
more than ever. Has not this visitation been fraught 
with mercies to you — each of you ? That it may prove 
yet more the means of good to us individually, let us 
each lay it to heart : I mean her caypenence. She 
wondered that she had not come into such a blessing 

before. 

" In her case we have the encouragement to ask and 
espect great blessings. To this is superadded, 'great 
and precious promises.' Let one full of import be re- 
cited : ' Call unto me, and I will answer, and show thee 
great and mighty thiBgs,^hich tKoa hast not known.' 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 317 

After all we have known, there are still ^ great and 
mighty things.' After all that we see, still the pro- 
mise is good. If 'great and mighty things' be not in 
the experience oieach^ on w4om shall the blame rest? 
Let us seek not low attainments, but great and mighty 
uprisings towards heaven. 

" From R.'s faithfulness in sickness let us learn the 
important lesson of being faithful in health. And in 
all we do, let us ask, how will this appear on my dy- 
ing bed ? Thus may we be led to act, not with a view 
to man's judgment, but in accordance with the will of 
God. 

" If our sister be restored, still it remains for some 
one of our number to lead the way to the bar of God. 
You know that a part of my grave-clothes were once 
made. How soon the winding-sheet may be my at- 
tire or yoursy who can tell ? But sure the funeral knell 
may soon tell our departure. How solemn is that 
sound : ' Earth to earth, ashes to ashes, dust to dust !' 

" Let us, in minding our duty, keep where our sis- 
ter would keep — near to God in secret, near to God in 
all our intercourse with others ; for, holding converse 
with him, we shall be transformed into his likeness — 
the more like God, the more holy — the more holy, the 
more happy, and the better fitted for a heaven whose 
glory is holiness. Then, living or dying, all will be 
well. 

* I*m glad that I was bom to die.' 

" Do you each see your way clear 7 Is it lighted up 
tvith glory as you pass along? or are you walking in 
darkness ? Then you must stumble — you must ha' 
O, it cannot be otherwise. And \£ \X \i^ >^>a&^ V 

27* 



318 

wtetk jaa with « broAei's lotey and as thoog^ tkif 
were mf dyin^ words, remoTe the stomMhig-hlocfcfc 
Find oat, bring to light, and slaj ererj enemy. B»* 
bor not one — no, not on* disloyal subject. IjeCJcsas 
be King^ and let him reign withoot a liTaL O, how 
many, for the indulging of one sin, have preTenled 
eonTietion and eonrersion ; and for want of these, how 
many haTe sunk to hell ! And tell me of a daifcer 
sign in a professor, than one sin of any kind indniged* 
Shoold not that be enough to lead him to question hit 
being in a gracious state? My brother — my sisters, 
witness my determination ; Grod being my helper, I 
will love and #erve him. It is my choice. Be ye al- 
so more than erer determined. As a family, and as 
individuals, let us lire to Grod. Give to the rain the 
vanities c^ time. Give to the worlding its ^fleeting 
show.' Let the lovers of pleasure grasp at a phantom. 
Be it ours to seek and possess the chief good ; lay up 
treasure in the heavens, and reach for the prize. Then, 
as a family and as individuals, we shall answer the 
end of our being — live in the fear and love of God, 
die exulting, and wing our way to the paradise above. 
There, if not below, I will wait to meet you. 
" With a brother's love, 

« Jaicbs B. Taylor.'* 

"Nassau BaU, Dee. 39, 188& 
*' Dear Brother, 

^^Your letter has come to band. No item called 
forth more grateful emotions than the testimony oi 
your having more sensibly the presence of the Lord. 
Indeed, I praise the God of our salvation for his 
^ov§ to my brothet in xYoa i««\^cx, \ \s\xsx ^ ^irill 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 319 

viiit you yet more copiously. May you have gospel- 
measure. 

*^ Of late I have rejoiced that there is an eternity — 
a glorious eternity. Separated now, there we shall 
mingle, and with saints and angels join. How then 
should we act on earth ! O, had disembodied spirits 
to act oyer another life, how active would they be ! 
Brother, what would the saint who died rich, now do 
with his money were he here ? Would the thousands 
that have been scattered to the winds by prodigal heirs 
be again put into their hands ? or would they be sa- 
credly disposed of for Grod ? How much better, ' in 
that day,' to be found among those who have been 
more solicitous to furnish the church with able minis- 
ters of the New Testament, than to adorn after-gene- 
rations with vanity! And who dare say, that by do- 
ing more for God and less for heirs, souls would not 
have been saved ?" 

In the following from Mr. Taylor's diary, his com- 
munion with God, and resignation to the divine will, 
shine conspicuously, and are worthy of the imitation 
of all that come after him. 

" Dec. 30, 1825. — Had, at evening devotion, an un- 
common blessing, such in kind and degree as perhaps 
I never had before. I sang, 

* Hail lOTereign love, that fin t began.' 

^ Being led to examine whether I could acquiesce 
in the will of Ciod, I asked, (but it seemed as if He 
pat the question,) ' Coold you, weie Oo^ x^wi^ 



Mt ftom f oar pomit, could yoo i rlinq pi iili the 
try V My f^ly was, Lord, thoo knowest this tonrkri 
io the temderest point— jet I could yield at thy bid- 
din^ — gfo to the ploo^ or to the most servile employ- 
ment. To me it seemed that my will was whoUf re- 
solved into the will of God. It was a holy talk with 
hearen, and beyond expressioB sweet. Gratitiide in- 
expressible filled my heart, and struggled for utter- 
ance. I fell before the Lewd in ray accustomed kneel- 
in^>place, and attempted a thank-offering. 

'^ Had an opportunity to talk faithfully to a candi- 
date for the ministry. I told him, that, with my pie- 
eent views, it would never do for me to live and net as 
most ministers do. O what an account must ale^iag 
watchmen give! And how will ministers appear^ if 
at last they should cry out. Lost — ^lost for ever ! Loid 
give me holiness and wisdom. I will hope to lay out 
myself for God. I woald rather lay me down and die 
than live to dishonor thee." 

Diary, "January 1, 1836 — Sabbath evening. — Ha>e 
just risen from my kneel ing-place, where I thanked 
the Lord, at the remembrance of his mercies — for food 
and raiment — for health — for the use of all my senses 
— for the privilege of living alone — for literary advan- 
tages, books, and instructors. And the visits of his 
love the past year have been frequent — my record 
gpoaks of some. I have not recorded all, nor all my 
o:)errations. My record is on high. The Lord know- 
cth. Clothed in the Redeemer's righteousness, it i$ 
enouffh. 

^' I thanked the Lord for my parents — that they have 
Vffl spared— my broxVi^ts ^ti^ %\a\«t% w^. h^LV^^ora^ 



JAMES BRAINBRD TAYLOR. 381 

sickness has entered our borders and threatened the 
removal of two of our number, they both live. I thank- 
ed the Lord for benefactors, praying friends, and cor- 
respondents. 

*' My prayer was, and is repeated — Lord, bless me 
this year also. Show me ^ great and mighty things 
that I know not.' Bless me not only, but make me a 
blessing to my brethren in the college — make me a 
blessing to the college — to the town — to my relations 
and friends. Bless the church — the sons of Levi — the 
candidates for the ministry — scatter light among the 
nations of the earth. Great things have been witness- 
ed during the past year. This has been an indescrib ■ 
ably happy new year's day to me. 

'^ While the brethren were at prayer in my room this 
morning, (as usual on Sunday morning,) a letter was 
left on my desk, of which the following is a copy : 

* Sir,— You are suspected d— d strongly of having informed 
the faculty of the misdemeanors of several of the students. 
The evidence against you, though circumstantial, is of the 
strongest kind. You will for the future be strictly watched^ 
and therefore it will be prudent for you to visit your brother§, 
the tutors, as seldom as possible ; for if detected, your punish- 
ment is inevitable. Do not treat this with levity. If you do 
you must suffer the consequences.' 

<' I was a little surprised at such a letter ; but the 
charity that ' beareth all things ' was in exercise. My 
soul yearned for the unknown individual who wrote 
the letter. I longed, with weeping eyes and groans 
which could not be uttered, to see him a returning 
prodigal. My heart broke too for the college* The 
exercise was more earnest than e^et\>^^Qit^^^T^ 



an • IIEH0I8 or 

■round me, yet my will was absorbed in ihe will of 
God — I saw iliai it belonged lo him to work salralion. 
My soul was lifted up with ila longings for a blessing 
on the preaching to-day, and with streaming eyes 1 
«rose, at the riaging of the hell, and hastened to hear 
the word. Shall we not see better days 7 

' I wrote on the aforesaid letter, ' Greater Is he that 
is for me, than all they that are against me.' 'Ilegiveih 
his angels charge concerning thee, lest at any time 
thou dash thy fool agaiosl a stone.' I add, ' Who shall 
harm you, if ye be followers of that which is good) 
The Lord is on our side.' 

"A report is in circulation that an individual hsJ 
Baid he tihould consider hioiself bound lo report to the 
Aiculty the bad conduct of students. Though I am 
not the person who said this, if it was ever said, pro- 
bably the suspicion has fallen on me. Amen, They 
meant it for evil; God meant it for good. A greal 
blessing has come to me through an emissaTf ol 
Saian. — O bow would my arms of lore open to him 
if he would come to Christ. O for the descent of the 
Holy Ghost. 

"Wrote my usual new year's letter to our family." 

" Naisau Halt, January 1, 1826. 

" As usual, I suppose my parents, brothers, and sis- 
lers will be eipecting a new year's letter. They 
shall not be disappointed — A happy new year to yoo 
nli~to me it has happily begun. 

" To us, collccliTely and individually, the yenr 1835 
hds been fraught with good. Prosperity has been with- 
in OUT borders. Called, indeed, to talk of judgmeats, 
we have sung of meiciea. k\\,Wt.^«i'aa.^i«ni<mnM 



JAMES BRAIMERD TAYLOR. ' 9^ 

ihan James, are laid under renewed obligations to lova 
and seive the Lord. 

" Recounting the goodness of God to me, I find that 
It reaches to the clouds. But *wlien on Zion we 
stand,' we hope to talk of all his goodness. You have 
had my testimony already of some of those manifesta- 
tions I have enjoyed. Suffice it for the present to say, 

* The more thy glory strikes mine eyes, 
The lower I shall lie : 
Thus while I sinky my soul shall rise 
Immeasurably high.' 

" I thank our God that he has continued our parents 
with us another year — our parents, always beloved by 
us^ all. They have fostered us — they have trained us 
up — they have wept for us — they have prayed for us 
^-they love us. May their declining sun shine yet 
fair, and set in splendor. Methinks I hear my parents 
say, we will praise the Lord ; yes, we will praise the 
Lord for all his goodness to us and ours. If we listen 
to your testimony, shall we not hear you witness to 
the visits of our heavenly Father? O yes, you each 
know what it is to hold fellowship with the Father, 
and with his Son Jesus Christ. You know what it is 
to hold converse with God in secret ; and doubtless the 
daily desire of your hearts is, 'Evermore give us this 
bread ;' nor do I doubt that your daily prayer goes up 
for our advance in the way of holiness. 

" Shall brother E. and sister M. see this ? A hap- 
py new year to them. I need not repeat here, what 
jou often converse on together. Every minister, and 
every minister's wife, must think of souls under their 
care — souls to be trained for heaven, who are already 
in the wsty, and souls yet in. their sins. 



984 KEMom or 

'^ Brotker F., bow do yoa lire in college 1 I do Ml 
hear from you. Are you getting much knoWledgt 
upon your knees 7 ' And tliey shall all be taught of 
God.' Take the promise that I have taken. ^ Call 
unto me, and 1 will answer.' Live so in college^ that 
wnen you graduate, you may stand beside your bro- 
ther, and with him tell the world that there is no plaee 
more eligible for advancement in holiness than col- 
lege. O, let us ' die daily ' to the world, and have our 
souls so imbued with that knowledge whieh does not 
come from books, that, Moses like, others may see 
that we have been with Qod. Then, as before Moses, 
smners will tremble before us. O for a holy umction, 

" In the commencement of this new year, kt ua all 
be solemn. With many it is a day of mtrtb« Let ns 
think on our latter end. We shall find it profitable 
to do it frequently. Is once a week too often ? For 
one, I believe I try to do it daily, I go to the grave- 
yard for this : I sit on the tomb'stones and read, ' Here 
lies,' and think on my shroud and coffin — the tolling 
bell — the funeral procession — the open grave — the fall- 
ing earth — I love to die in imagination. There is 
nothing more interesting to me than death scenes. I 
know not indeed that my parents shall surround my 
dying bed; nor that my brother or sisters shall watch 
my parting breath. I am not worthy of their kind of- 
fices ; I may die, a stranger in a strange land. But 
what of this? To lie beside my fathers' sepulchres 
would indeed be grateful : but one point of the eartli 
is as near to heaven as another ; and, although we may 
not rise from the same burying-place, the same tram- 
pet shall awaken us, and we shall arise to the tama 
^tfares. Let ua trf to >]ii¥&^ ^«.^^ xer^ ^aKvi^ vi^^ ikn 



JAMCB BRAIKGRD TAYLOR. 335 

F«veral reasons i 1. That we may fix our faith more 
firmly on the doctrines of the Bible: the doctrines of 
men will not stand in a dying hour. 2. That our 
worldly pursuits may be rightly regulated. 3. That 
we may seek morie earnestly full preparation. 4. 
That when afiiicted we may the better sustain it. 5. 
That we may forgive and act towards all as becometh 
the dying. Redeem the time, and so be ever ready 
and waiting for the coming of the Son of man. 

" To conclude. Let us, in entering upon any busi- 
ness, inquire whether it be lawful. Let all worldly at- 
tachments and pursuits hang loosely about us. Let 
our houses be set in complete order. Let us begin 
nothing of which we have not well considered the 
end. When you shall have read this, I wish each of 

you to go aside and pray for • 

"James." 

Diary. January 3. — "Am truly blessed of God. Be- 
fore the commencement of service at the usual Tues- 
day evenius: meeting, I sat musing and invoking a 
blessing. The Lord came apparently with his servant 
— as he prayed, my soul seemed to gain new vigor — 
and while we sung. But as he spoke, a heavenly in- 
fluence dropped— distilled — poured into my soul. The 
Holy Ghost seemed to come down — and I felt hot with 
hallowed fire. It was an increase upon the blessing 
of last Sabbath — for it was a struggle for soiSls. Tht; 
subject was, *God tries the patience of his children.' 
I felt that mine had been tried, and lunged for his 
coming. Ilis address being finished, I prayed. It was 
still a solemn time, and the divine influence seemed 

to increase— while this was lUc buideii ol o\rc ^wj^i*' 

28 i.\i.T».'s^« 



dS6 MEMOUL or 

Holiness for ourselves, and conversion and holinm 
for the impenitent. 

" Spent a couple of hours in his room with the preach* 
er and brother J., where I gained new vigor, exul 
tation, and triumph, and some practical knowledge. 
Received a letter which made my soul leap for joy. 
How thankful I ought to be for the addition of this ac- 
quaintance during the last year. It will doubtless be 
consummated in heaven. The Lord blesses us, and 
makes us a blessing to each other." 

To Rev. Mr. H , of S 

" Nassau Hallj JantCary 15, 1826. 
** To my revorendt mj esteenujd Friend, and th« Church in bis honn: 

<' I need not tell you how often I have perused tho^e 
two letters received from my venerated father in the 
Gospel, nor say that they are among the most valued 
of my letters received. Think then how much I have 
desired a third and a fourth. Almost a year has elaps- 
ed since the date of the last. My affection for you all 
will not allow me to suppose that I shall intinide br 
once more breaking in upon a leisure half hour of 
yours. 

''If not too late, a happy new year to you, and your 
dear family. How gladly would I spend this evening 
with you, in recounting the mercies of the last year. 
To you it has been full of loving-kindness — your fa- 
mily circle has been unbroken — your happy mansion 
has been screened from *the pestilence that walketh in 
darkness, and the destruction that wasteth at noon- 
day.' While others have been called to follow their 
inmates to the narrow house, you all live. • 

"Believing that yo^ *vV\\ ^»^V,^^ ^^«v W«^,xs^ 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 327 

your young friend as when you wrote, * My family, 
with many pleasant recollections, unite with me in the 
best wishes and prayers for your best welfare and 
highest usefulness,' I need not apologize for speaking 
a little of myself; for to me the year 1825 has been 
signalized with many blessings. ^ Ten thousand 
thousand precious gifts my daily thanks employ.' Al- 
most uninterrupted health — local privileges, heaven 
nigh — special baptisms of the Holy Ghost, producing 
quietness and confidence^ in which for the most part 
Itas been my strength, 

' Through all eternity to thee 
A grateful song I'll raise ; 
Dut, O etemity*s too short 
To utter all thy praise/ 

^' I might specify particular blessings, but it would 
extend beyond the bounds of a letter. With me, now 
as you read, give thanks to Him whose mercy endur- 
eth for ever. 

*^ One of the richest blessings during the past year, 
came in the application of this promise : ' Call upon 
me, and I will answer, and show thee great and miglT- 
ty things which thou knowest not.' O, it was glo- 
riotiSj glorious beyond description. At some time pre- 
rious, perhaps two weeks, I opened Clarke on the Pro- 
mises. This^ among others, I read, I treasured it up 
in memory — I believed it — I took Grod at his word. 
I plead it before him. When applied, it was great and 
mighty in a degree of which I knew nothing before. 
I knew not but the hour of my departure had come. 
It seemed as if my soul was breathing itself out of the 
body. 



328 MEMOim OF 

*' Duriog the past year my call to preach the Gk)8pel 
lias been made so satisfactorily plain that there is do( 
the shadow of a doubt on my mind. 'Wo is me if I 
preach not the Gospel.' Like other rich blessings, it 
came with groans ichich could not be uttered, O for 
a letting into our souls the powerful, avmlingi in- 
^Drought prayer. What strength does it g^ve the Chris- 
tian ! How it prepares for an attack from the world, 
the flesh, or the devil ! What a staff in his walks of 
usefulness I 

"You arc friendly to a candidate's exercising his 
gifts in public. To mc it appears to be an essential part 
of his preparatory training. Its advantages you have 
long considered. To corroborate my assertion, I could 
mention the case of a clergyman now occupying an 
important station as a pastor. In his preparatory 
course he was shut up in the city of a close stu- 
dent. Soon after being licensed to preach, he was or- 
dained over the flock he now feeds. He wrote and 
read his sermons. In the pulpit he was orthodox, pi- 
ous, learned ; but in the lecture-room I was told he 
could not proceed. To this kind of training I have 
devoted some time in the town, as well as in college. 

" As a proof of Paul's apostleship, he pointed to his 
success. To the Corinthians he said, ' The seal of 
mine apostleship are ye, in the Lord.' Shall I tell 
you ? It is with diffidence, lest you should think nic 
forward and vain. But I will not glory of myself. It 
is a chain in God's providence ; the hook was fasten- 
ed upon a very minute circumstance — one link was 
added to another. One sinner was converted, and an- 
other, and so on to the eighth. Seven have since join- 
td the church. Waa \ nox \\^^\»>i Vol ^ww^'s^^ycv?. iUt»ir 



JAME8 BRAINERD TAYLOR. 329 

profession, and in sittiD^ down with them at the table 
of our Lord ? Perhaps, last spring, I labored, besides 
my studies, as much as some who are more fully in the 
vineyard. It was a season full of interest. From 
week to- week 1 now try to act, in my degree, the part 
of an U7u2er-shepherd towards those lambs. May you, 
my dear sir, see them in paradise. 

^' The scenes witnessed at Rahway, last spring va- 
cation, form a pleasing association with the year 1825. 
There, as you may have known, I spent most of five 
weeks. O what a time, when to a room full of young 
converts I said, ' Finally, brethren, farewell.' Time 
glides smoothly — swiftly ; studies pleasant for the most 
part. The New Testament in the original, for the study 
of which I have the best critical helps, I read with plea- 
sure, and I hope with profit ; this I do daily ; I long to 
be ' mighty in the Scriptures.' True, a minister may 
be this, and yet without grace — may be like the sign 
of an inn. For as the one points out a resting-place 
for the wayfaring man, and yet itself stands without, 
so a graceless minister may point out the resting-place 
and give some good entertainment for the pilgrim, and 
yet himself be blasted with the storms of an eternal 
night, O ! how many, like the bells of their churches, 
may have called for others to enter, and may have suc- 
ceeded, and yet have not entered themaelves into the 
ark ! It was a saying of Hilary, Sanctiores sunt aures 
plebis quam corda aacerdotum; which may be freely 
rendered, ' How many holy sounds are in the ears of 
the people, that never affected the hearts of the priests.' 

'^ Let the burden of your united prayer for me be, 
that I may be holy and mse. Holy, to enter heaven i 
and wise, to win souls. I hav« itf)X mdi >^ \ii 

28* 



330 MSMOU OP 

would, nor in the manner intended ; bat you have the 
elTasions of a heart oyeifLowing with its best feelings ; 
for I owe you a weight of love. When I think of that 
stopping-place, there are associated all your cordial 
receptions, from my ' first entering in unto you'— ail 
your more than hospitable entertainments — all your 
afi'ectioDate adieus, to one unworthy to come under 
your roof. Farewell. I long to see you all. ' Happy 
seasons we have seen.' But adieu. 

"James B. TAYi-oa." 

Diary. " Feb. 3. — A month has elapsed since I wrote 
in my journal. I sometimes fear I am partial in not 
entering minutely into all my exercises. Bat I only 
record special visitations of God ; and hope, in then 
review from time to time, I may be able afresh to re 
alize 'the good hand of the Lord, which has been 
upon me for good.' 

" About noon to-day I went to seek a nearer view ot 
him whom my soul loveth, by reading the Tract, ' A 
choice drop of honey from the Rock Christ ; or a word 
of advice to all saints and sinners.' After dining, I 
mused and read again. I longed for the coming of the 
Beloved — I cast myself before the Lord in my blessed 
kneeling-place, and felt that I owed God more than 
ten thousand talents, and had not one — no, not one to 
pay : poor — ^poor indeed. With a clear view of the 
demerit of sin, I could point to Jesus and say, there 
IS my (mly plea. It was enough, for long since hath 
the Father said, ' In him am I well pleased.' The in- 
describable breakings of my heart in laying hold on 
Qod, are known to the Giver, It was a sweet — melt 
ing season. Sin aeTei) v^Vk^V^^ v^^t^^Ax^d «q odioot; 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 33t 

it was in my view the great evil ; and my only groan- 
ings, which at times could hardly be uttered, were for 
wisdom and holiness. My every load was taken ofT— 
I smiled under the light of my Father's countenance, 
and glory, glory as a stream, went out in return for so 
great a blessing. It had come from God, and now it 
was going back to God. Yet on my knees, my soul 
was again melted in view of the goodness of God. 
To-night attended my meeting in town, which was 
solemn. 

" Had a most precious season before the Lord while 
reading the Tract, ' The Church Safe.' The strongest 
desire excited was, that God would glorify himself 
through my instrumentality. Spent part of the even- 
ing in visiting a sick friend, whose soul seemed re- 
freshed. Upon my leaving her she said, ' You have 
been my best physician to-day.' I hardly ever saw so 
visible a change in any one as in her during my visit. 
Another proof that they that wait upon the Lord shall 
renew their strength." 

To Mr. D. and family. 

<' So far as I can see, this appears to be the order in 
which blessings sometimes come upon me. The Lord 
gives me to see my meanness, miworthiness, nothing- 
ness, and ill desert, until brought into the deepest hu- 
miliation. Then opens Christ's beauty, worth, full- 
ness, and his raising the sinner as high as his sins 
would sink him low. Then, with streaming eyes, bro- 
ken heart, groans unutterable, the soul longs for the 
coming in of God — ^pants for. the overflowing of the 
cooling stream^has an unction fraia \Yift l^cA^) C^*^ 



71 . • MML^ 

332 MMUNr -^ ' 



ftsit aboondt Itf lofv, w^prae^, iM jdys ' ftaefr rviife 
of lore I elpeiieiie«d yestirdtf: Bootetinies wiifl0< 
«tfi^ the fire Irarns— tlw Fathtor ymi te ii "m d 
nion is sweet. Thus, for the meet pifft, my sdoliiftfiBf 
in ^qaiemess and eonfidene*;' Otdhe^RurtalDAaefldii 
holiness. 

'^ 7th. — ^I proposed to a few fellow-atadeiitSi aad 
would propose to the whole Christiaii woild, that thef 
would eaeh, in some sort, comply with die deehn* 
tion of the Psalmist, ' that prayer shall also be asads 
eofi/lfiiMitf 3f for him f at twelre e'elodt eaeh day, say 
firom the' heart, ' Thy kingdom come.' 

''ThbmoAiing did that for wiiieh I MteoadcBC 
ed« It was when olf my guard. I raised my ery to 'tt# 
Lord, and trust he heard me. Learned anew tharlaaaoa j 
' Watch and pray, lest ye enter into temptation.* No 
one was injured by my sin. Lord, cleanse ihou me 
fkom secret ^ults. 

''At evening devotion had a blessed refireahiag. 
Sung, 

Thoa only Sovereign of my heart.* 

Looking at the wacchmen on ZionN walls, my heart 
bled for bleeding Zion. Considered Jesus as the grand 
Architect— as fully equal to the great work ; and felt 
persuaded that the temple would be completed, how* 
ever unfkithfnl and unskillful the underworkmen mi|^t 
be. My heart broke with desire for the bringing in of 
a more devoted ministry. I saw that he could purify 
the present ministry, and make them all holy, labori- 
ous men— not men-pleaseri. 
""la looking al«TiA£,\ la\x VbA«i»idb^^ xaaaaia 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 333 

my own eyes, and cried out, Oh, my ignorance ! and 
saw that it must be of the Lcrd if ever I preach the 
Qospel. With streaming eyes I rose to fall in my 
knee ling-place, repeating, 

* Low at thy feet my soal would lie ; 

Here safety dwells and peace divine , 
SliU let me live beneath thine eye, 
For life, eternal life, is thine.' 

I bowed with groan ings which could not be uttered, 
and rose praising the Lord. 

" 11th. — Night before last I got away from God by 
sinning against him. Alas ! how aggravated my sin, 
after such overpowering visits of love ! Surely I ought 
never more to have offended him. Since then, but 
more particularly to-day, till noon, I felt wounded to 
the quick. ' Being enabled at noon, while reading a 
tract, to arraign myself more closely at the bar of con- 
science, I plead guilty, fell at the feet of sovereign 
mercy, and God was abundantly gracious to a rebel- 
lious child. He restored my soul. He delivered me 
out of all my distresses. 

" At evening devotion, after reading, kneeled where 
the heavens have so often opened over me and let down 
love, abundant, rich and free. I felt fatigued with the 
tabors of the day, and expected soon to rise. I was led 
to supplicate for my father^s house. I asked for the 
little ones, and for my nephews and nieces, that they 
might be Henry Martyns and Harriet Newells. Then 
with desire inexpressible I longed to be a missionary 
In the midst of weeping and groaning I saw that I 
was mean and ignorant ; but that Jesus \v'j^<^ ^ ^^vcw- 



334 imiODi 

plete master-bailder. My cry wms to be made fit fSor 
the very station upon the icaSbld around his tempk I 
should occupy. I saw clearly that all things are possi- 
ble with Grod — that he could carry me through tha 
work even of an apostle. Well, he knowetb what vi 
best — and that is best for me— sick or well — ^prosperi- 
ty or adversity — rest or labor — earth or heaven. Amen 
and amen. 

" It was pleasing to offer up my soul and body, mj 
time, talents, influence, possessions, all that I am or 
hope to be. I felt that the Lord accepted the pittance 
I had to give, which I also felt was his before. I was 
greatly blessed, and walking my room, praised him as 
the rock of my salvation. This room will stand a 
witness to my prayers, those unanswered are lodged 
above. It will also stand a witness to my follies in 
departing from the living God. But they are all for- 
given. The praise belongeth unto God." 

On the 20th February Mr. Taylor wrote to a Chris- 
tian brother who also had the ministry in view. The 
letter contains some passages that ought to be pre- 
served. 

" I have just come in from visiting a sick Christian; 
she is happy — sick and happy. Brother, in our minis- 
terial sphere, should we ever be permitted to walk in 
it, I think no higher office of kindness or badge of 
sonship will be afforded us, than to visit the widow 
and fatherless in their affliction. This is, indeed, reli- 
gion, pure and undefiled before God. Hence it is im- 
portant that we have our memories stored with h^ miu 
suitable for such occas'vou^. 



\ 



JAMBS BRAINERD TAYLOR. 335 

^^ 111 my meditations this evening I thought of Mo- 
bos. He had well nigh entered Canaan ; but, for his 
bio, he was only permitted fromPisgah's top to view 
the promised land. O how it wrung tears from my 
eyes to think it possible, that for past sins, or through 
sins that I might commit, I should be debarred entering 
upon the holy ministry. I know I do not deserve this 
honor. I could sigh forth a prayer — Lord, whether I 
preach the Gospel or not, purify the sons of Levi, and 
sanctify candidates for their work. 

" Perhaps I never had more confidence in God, as 
to the carrying on of his work in the world. I have 
not a doubt Jesus will reign. And my soul has been 
exceeding glad. * Every knee shall bow, and everv 
tongue shall confess.' " 

Diary, March 9.—" On the 2d and 5lh was refresh- 
ingly visited by the kind returns of the Spirit, whom I 
had grieved away. But it was only through groanings 
which could not be uttered. This was only a fore- 
taste of another love-feast which I enjoyed soon aften 
when my soul was melted into tenderness, captiva- 
ted with holiness, and longed for greater likeness to 
Christ. My views and experience seemed to coincide 
with Edwards', when he said, ' the heaven I desire is 
a heaven of holiness.' This was only the precursor of 
another and richer blessing at evening devotion. I 
have yet with the Lord an unanswered petition then 
preferred. I left it with him. I believed the Lord 
uould bless me woiiderfully. I believed all things 
were possible with him ; and I believed he would 
bless me. Z am waiting for the fulfillment of the expee- 
tatioD raised within me, I jLrast, b^ iW \\o\^ QiN\«< 



-o >:zjni:B ?i 

•• T:.-: v/o/i'i vrane- — a tr.V ■€ s'jrrender is groiTiDg 
in ir.;ip.. ranee. LnrJ. did net I make that surrender 
i>:Iav I Ke^p me — O keer- rae. Have 1 sought the 
h'j'jjrs cf this i2=tirist::r. — or of the iiieniiT socieiT 
vritij wl.icL I am consecied ? Has not ay desire pre- 
vailed 2cr tl.e hoEor that ccmeth from above ? Shall I 
i.'A have to ascribe njucii to ilie distinguishin:! grace 
•jI' G'-'J. !\r hii keeT'ing aiiJ blessing me in this col- 
lege? May my ambition be to fear, lote and serve 
God : let otr.ers Mke u:> wiih husks, irive me Christ; 
the srnile* of niv Fati.er. the presence of mv Com- 

w A m 

forler. Amen — my loul an J repeated a:nen, 

'• 19th. Sabbalh. — la last eveaing-s devotions had 
nearness of access to GoJ in remembering my beloved 
p'-irenls. brothers and sisters. Felt particularly for 
brotiior F. (jvjw in Yale Colleirc^ and nivself, as can- 
didales f'.r the holv ministrv. I could weep before the 
Lord for a baptism of iicly F.re to rest on us both. To- 
gotlicr v»'c iKivc watched our F;iihe:*> tlock. trgether 
may v/e be faithful undcr-shepherds ever tbe tiock of 
C'ii}(}. I love my brother — I tiu.-t Gcd loves him. Our 
Ijf.'irt-i are united. 

•• Ilcniembered those among wlioni 1 have been la- 
boring from time to time. AVhat interesting groups of 
young converts have I seen. I think 1 have felt some- 
what as Paul did, when he said. ' Xcw we live, if ye 
siund fji-st in the Lord.' Alas ! how soon are the 
lambs torn in pieces ! how alert should the shepherd be. 

•' Sabbatii morning.— My soul has melted down at 
tln» presen'n of Jesus'. A pit'ssui'e of love rested on 
mi', and praise, praise, praise in a stream went up from 
mv inmost soul ! This mvstcrv, ' Christ in vou. the 
hope of glory.' lias ucvev ;i\)\>v!^TVi'\ ^^ nn^wvImxCiiL Ilea- 



JAMES BRAINEllD TAtLOR. 337 

vi&n appeared truly desirable. Yet I desired to live, if 
I might, to bring many souls to glory. I should love 
much to send thither many a band of young converts. 
I desired it much, even if at a distance I should only 
be a looker-on. My love to Grod's children was great- 
ly increased ; and my desire for a clean heart was in- 
tense. It was given, and my eyes ran down with tears 
—sweet tears ! 

" 24th.—* Come unto me, all ye that labor and are 
heavy laden, and I will give you rest ' — selected as 
the theme for my meeting this evening. Having 
thought of it, it was applied siceetlij to my own soul 
at evening devotion. I was not burdened nor weary ; 
but my rest was increased. 

" I have been thinking to-day upon our ships of war 
as spheres of future labor. I have thought of them 
before, but to-day with some desire, if God will, to 
engage as a chaplain. * A man's heart deviseth his 
way, but the Lord directeth his steps.' May I be a 
good man ; for the steps of a good man are ordered 
by the Lord. 

" 25th. — From the testimony of a brother who at- 
tended the partj/ last evening, it seems that, as usual, 
lightness prevailed. I was invited ; but attended my 
party, my usual society meeting. Enough, enough 
have I had of fashionable tea-parties to prove that, 
to me at least, they are unprofitable. This brother told 
me that he felt the worse for attending. Query, Is it 
right to expend money for the dissipation of the mind ? 
to say nothing of the deleterious elfects that such variety 
of viands, generally taken to satiety, have upon the cor- 
poreal system, especially on persons of sedentary ha> 

bits. I was g]ad of so good an apo\o%^ ^i-^ \wj tcv^«x\T*%i 

29 1. ^ 't^-sV"* 



33^ MEUoia or 

" 30th.— Memorable, memorable day ! It has ben 
a day of days to me. In it much lias been unspeaka- 
ble and full of glory. On my knees I recorded my re- 
solution never more to boast save in the cross of Christ. 
While before the Lord, I hare been much affected 
with the view of his overwhelming greatness, and of 
my own infinite — infinite littleness. No wonder thit 
the beloved disciple became as a dead man. No won- 
der that Moses feared and quaked. But it is indescribt- 
ble. I have felt so infinitely unworthy, that I could not 
look up ; yet my hope in Gk>d is raised on high. God's 
greatness, connected with his amazing love and con 
descension, affected me much. I indeed felt constrained 
to say, ' I am a worm, and no man.' 

" The love of Jesus, his life, sufferings and death 
and the opposition to him, as manifested by the im 
penitent, affected me much. The holy influences of 
the Spirit of grace, and the remembrance of ever hav- 
iog grieved him, affected me much. 

" To depart and be with Christ I felt to be desirable. 
Though so undeserving — unworthy even to be a door- 
keeper in the house of my God here, yet I could anti- 
cipate the day when he would take his exile home. 

'^ Heaven was regarded as a holy place. I was glad 
in the prospect of holy society — God, angels, and 
saints. The thought of dying to know more, was plea- 
sant. But at evening devotion ray will was absorbed 
in the will of God. ^ I give my mortal interests up, and 
make my God my all.' Praise belongeth unto God. 
Let all things praise him. Praise the Lord, O my soul. 

" April 2. — Sabbath. — * If ye then, being evil, know 
Now to give good gifts unto your children, how much 

' I youT FaXViCi 'w\io \s Va. >fi«««ii^ ^vi^ the 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 339 

Holy Spirit to them that ask him.' This scripture was 
graciously applied to me at evening devotion, upon 
which I received an increase of the Spirit's influen- 
ces. I believed, and according to my faith so it was. 

" 9th. — Sabbath evening. — The last Lord's day in 
college this session, and to be remembered as amon 
the most precious. Reviewing this session, I hav 
much to remember, and more than I can record of the 
goodness of God to me. Scientific pursuits have led 
me into an acquaintance with subjects before unknown 
to me. Lord, sanctify this knowledge. 

" The study of the New Testament in the Greek 
has opened to my mind many things before hid from 
me. Yetj deeper would I dig into this rich, exhaust- 
less mine ; for the deeper, the more lucid and brilliant 
the precious gem of truth appears. Lord, sanctify me 
through thy truth : thy word is truth. My weekly ex- 
ercises with the people among whom I have gone la- 
boring, with the view of stirring up any gift I may pos- 
sess, and of edifying my little congregation, has been 
of service to me. Lord, all that was amiss forgive ; 
own what was thine, and may fruit appear at the last 
day. To my brethren in college, too, in our weekly 
assembly, I have not failed to be plain, pointed, and I 
hope affectionate. 

'^ To the institution as a body, I have done but little. 
If it was my duty, I have not done it. I have not gone 
from room to room and ' warned every man night and 
day with tears.' Only to a few have I been personal 
in my interviews. Shall these dear souls be lost 
through my miscarriage towards them ? In view of 
this subject, an4 some others, this day 

"Besoived, rhat I will, the Liord Wvu^ \&?) V^ 



J40 MEMOIR OP 

thinkj speak, and act as an individual : for as sneb 
I must live — as such I must die, stand before Giod, be 
judged, be damned or saved for ever and ever. I have 
been waiting for others to go forward. I must act as it 
I were the only one to act, and wait no longer. 

" The days of darkness have been few, and only 
when I slipped back from God. He has not withdrawn 
from me; but I have most ungratefully and basely 
withdrawn from him. As the earth rolls and involves 
itself in darkness, so by my turning from the Sun of 
righteousness have I been involved in darkness ; nor 
till turned back again, did I walk in the light, as he is 
m the light ; yet, though, like Peter, I fell, the Lord 
turned and looked on me again, and, like Peter, O how 
bitterly I wept. I do not remember that I once came 
back but with tears and groans which could not be ut- 
tered. When away, as a father pitieth his children, 
so the Lord pitied me. A father's pity to his wayward 
child is often manifested by the lifted rod ; so my hea- 
venly Father hath ever used the discipline of the co- 
venant, and followed me till I again felt the Spirit of 
his Son uttering in my inmost soul, ^ Abba, Father.' 

" The days of peace have been multiplied, seasons 
of holy unction have been vouchsafed, powerfully con- 
straining cords of love have bound me closer to the 
bosom of my Lord. Clearer, more elevating, and at 
the same time soul-humbling manifestations of Jesus 
have been enjoyed. In a word, my heavenly Father has 
smiled most graciously ; Jesus has showed to me liis 
life, his labors, his sutfeiings and death, his exaltation 
and intercession, and his love and care for me. The 
Comforter has dwelt in me as his temple, and I have 
ctly contemplated sauws "olti^ ^xv%,^"i ^"i xk^ Cviiure 



«.JAHE8 BRAINERD TAYLOR. 341 

companions, and heaven as my home. With increat- 
ing desire I long to enter the field, to lay out my 
strength for God. 

*' Not knowing what the Lord has for me to do, I 
am kept from what, perhaps, would be as pleasant to 
me as to another, and at which some have been led 
to wonder. Some may think me stoically indifferent 
to the connubial state — but I fear to act prematurely. 
It is this which restrains me from taking any steps in 
that matter. When it is clearly one's duty to seek 
such a connection, will not a prudent wife come from 
the Lord ? Sometimes I think of this, and wish that 
ministers would see well to it, that they obtain in their 
companions an increase of power to help on their work. 

" The blessings attending our happy household in- 
crease. May we ever stand fast, and always abound 
in the work of the Lord. I hope to see them soon. 
May I go in the fullness of the blessing of the Gospel 
of peace, be blessed and made a great blessing to them, 
and to all with whom I may associate. 

''This has been a day of the renewal of my cove- 
Dant. Once more I have had the most honorable seat 
on earth, a place at the Lord's table. It was a precious 
waiting upon Qod. I again took the oath of allegiance, 
showed forth the Lord's death, remembered him, and 
gave thanks. 

"May 18, 1826.— Since writing the above, have 
visited my father's house. Returning, I have now en- 
tered upon my last session in college. Already hath 
it been signalized with a most gracious visitation ; the 
college opened this day at noon — at evening devotion 
the Holy Spirit was vouchsafed. M.^ Vi««x>?% ^« 
WMM, that thiB session might be mote |syonQiviA^>M> 

29* . 



342 MEMOIR OP 

before ^ my prayer, that no blot might attach to me ; I 
gave my interests op to my faithful Keeper. 

^* 27th. Sabbath. — The past week has been a glori- 
ous one to me, with the exception of nearly a day, 
when I wandered from God in doing what I ought not 
to have done. The fruits of the Spirit, so far as they 
have been produced in my soul, have been love, joy, 
peace, faith, and gentleness." 

" This last trait in James Taylor's character,'' says 
a friend, " was particularly observable. He did every 
thing with gentleness. It was this which rendered his 
reproofs so inoffensive and effectual in his intercoune 
witli his friends and with strangers. This character- 
istic, added to a familiarity and playfulness peculiar- 
ly his own, rendered him the favorite of the children 
of the families in which he visited, for whom he al' 
ways manifested an affectionate regard, and whom he 
would attempt to interest and benefit by relating some 
story from the Bible, or some striking incident in the 
history of some child he had read of, or had known. 
His gentleness appeared in all his movements; he 
would even raise the latch of the door noiselessly. 
And on entering a house of prayer, or any place of re- 
ligious worship, he walked as lightly as on tiptoe. He 
made this a principle of action, and rendered it, as he 
desired, a habit; and would remark, when speaking 
of conducting religious worship, that this habit was 
most desirable in the minister, as rendering the place 
of meeting more impressive and solemn." 

"My seasons of prayer in the evening," continues 
iUf journal, "have been um«« ol vpec\Q\W^<«>%v&V>^'' 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 349 

describable, sometimes /m/^ of glory. My heart broke 
with the longings it bad to live to and for God — re- 
joiced that Christ was in me the hope of glory. 

"Before retirinii; to rest last night, as usual knelt be- 
fiide my bed. My renewed petition was that I might 
possess, in as high a degree as possible in this world, 
the life of God in my soul. In the night, while asleep, 
I thought myself in company with S and an- 
other person. I arose and spoke. The Spirit of God 
seemed to come upon me in an unusual manner, and 
powerfully attended my words. The whole house 
seemed to be filled with the Holy Ghost. I was over- 
powered, and sweetly swooned away. I put no inter- 
pretation upon this dream. My prayer has been, my pe- 
tition now is, Lord, go with me to my meeting ; clothe 
me with power ; give efficacy to ihy word, and let sin- 
ners be awakened and converted unto thee, while I ad- 
dress them from — ' Sirs, what shall I do to be saved V 

4 

When I awoke from the forementioned dream, I trem- 
bled ; I felt as if God had been near, and so near that 
I feared. I endeavored to throw myself on his kind 
arms, and to wait his coming, when and how he should 
please. Even if I should lose my life under his mani- 
festations, I would trust him. 

" I have been much blessed in reading Bellamy's 
characteristics of love to God. Was greatly refreshed 
before I went to the people this afternoon. Now I re- 
ture to rest af\er a Sabbath day richly fraught with di- 
vine blessings. O to hold fast whereunto I have at- 
tained. I renew my petition. Lord, accomplish thy 
will in me, and make me all that thou wouldst have 
me to be in this world. I desired lo-d«^ \o\^ ^^ 
deroted to the Lord, 



344 UEMcw or 

^ May 3l8t. — Heard from, and wrote to brother P 
at Yale college." 

The letter written to that brother, himself also pre- 
paring for the ministry, is as follows : 

''Na8sau-HaU, May 31, 1888. 
•*D««rF. 

''Ere this you are in New-Haven. To-day yoe 
commence your session. Begin it with GUid. Coin 
tinue it walking with God. Then, whether you end 
it or not, you will be found with him. Thus I com- 
menced the session upon which I have entered. And if 
I had time, I might testify to the loving-kiodness of 
the Lord. Suffice it to say, his manifestations hare 
been overwhelming. Praise him on my behalf. 

'^ I think the world recedes yet more and more, u 
God comes in and abides. One thing with me is par- 
amount, and to this one thing I would endeavor to 
bend all my powers, that is, to preach Christ, to learn 
of him, and teach others, so as to arrive safe at heaven 
myself, and be the means of guiding others there. 

'^ Brother, let us feel, let us ask God to impress tii- 
dtlibly on our hearts the solemn truth that we are 
identified with this generation, and bound to serve it 
Soon, say in thirty years, where will these millions of 
souls be ? We are a part of them. What power, un- 
der God, have we over them? Whatever it is, let at 
put it all in requisition on the side approved of God. 

"Try to enjoy more of God in your own sooL 
Think not that you can do this and cling to the world 
at all. Superfluities must be abandoned ; and when 
Qoik pouri talvaliou mxo v\i« %q^^ «h«x^ vk^i^^:^^^ 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 345 

will appear to be of no worth. Let us give up all for 
a whole Christ in us, living and reigning there — living 
and reigning, O my brother, I heard a godly man 
say last evening in an address, ^1 believe that not one 
half of the professors of religion will ever cross the 
threshold of heaven.' Let us also beware lest a 
promise being left us of entering in, we should come 
short of it. The blessing of the Eternal rest on you 
and me. James." 

Diary. "June 4. — Sabbath. — The past week has 
not been so signalized as the preceding by successive 
visitations. Last evening had a peculiar season be- 
fore the Lord. I had desired of God to give me a deep 
sense of the turpitude of sin. The process through 
which I received it was more varied and better felt 
than can be described — but it came ; and never did I 
liave so clear and pungent, yet not distressing but 
loathing view of sin. It was proportioned to the dis- 
coveries I had of the infinite holiness of God. 

" Such a season of sweet submission of my will to 
the will of God was given, that I wept, and cried, 
glory — glory — glory. This was as spontaneous as my 
breath. I was brought to see and feel my utter help- 
lessness as never before, and throw myself on God, 
who graciously received me and afforded me the com- 
munications of his love. But my nothingness ! Inji- 
nile is stamped upon the amazing contrarieties. God 
is infinitely holy. One sin of mine is deserving in- 
finite damnation ; and I should have it, were it not 
for an infinite merit in Jesus Christ, for whose sake 
the infinite God stoops infinitely, and takes u\) an in- 
iiDitely unworthy, seif-condemTiVii^ Nvt^VoXv— ^ 



346 MBMoiB or 

shall I find an epithet? — dreg, from a loathaome, horii 
ble pit, to an infinitely exalted station. * If sons, then 
heirs — heirs of Grod and joint heirs with Christ.' 
glory infinite be unto the infinite God. And what dd I 
profit him ? O wonder of wonders ! ^ Where can a 
creature hide V 

"June 11 — Sabbath. — During the past week a unioa 
has been formed among the brethren to pray for the 
outpouring of the Holy Spirit upon us and the college. 

" On the 7ih, in the evening, had such a view of sin 
as to make me look at the least aberration as enough 
to induce me to cry, Lord, come over the mountains 
of my iniquities ! I had an application of Paul's words, 
with a consciousness that I had nought — no not apor- 
ticlef whereof to glory ; so that I was enabled, with 
an uncommon sinking and emptying of self, to put the 
crown on the head of Christ. These were the words: 
' God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of 
Christ,' &c. 

" Warm to-day, and I have felt much lassitude. 
May duties be omitted because the weather is hot? Is 
this an excuse ? 

" 18th — Sabbath. — Brother came in the even- 
ing to tell me of an experience he had this forenoon. 
He remarked that the enjoyment of the one hour he 
would not give for all he had ever known. From what 
I have heard him express in former conversations, and 
liis narrative now, perhaps he never experienced reli- 
gion till to-day. He seems happy in God. 1 advised 
him to say nothing of it to any other till he had fuller 
proof that it was a work of God. O that such in- 
stances might occur daily. Better away with rotten 
hopes here, than wail xiW v\i^ yx^^uieMV^^^^^^'BwVaM^ 
■'em. 



JAMES BRAINGRD TAYLOR. 347 

" Lord, establish thou me in holiness and righteous- 
ness all the days of my life. My enjoyment during 
the last week has been peace flowing as a river. I 
hope I am growing in knowledge for personal edifica- 
tion and future usefulness. My present plan* multi- 
plies subjects to preach upon, and may prove an armo- 
ry whence to draw weapons for my warfare, which is 
not carnal, but to be carried on with the sword of the 
Spirit. 

*^ The Bible — in contemplating its truth, I was ex- 
cited to cry out, ^ Blessed Bible ! blessed Bible ! 
blessed Bible !' It so much engrosses my leisure time 
that other books are neglected. O to be mighty in the 
Scriptures I Here I compare 'spiritual things with 
spiritual.' 

" Had a right feeling for one who has manifested a 
bad spirit towards me. My soul yearned for his con- 
version. O for the coming down of the Holy Ghost I 
Soon I shall be gone from this institution. As I lay 
down the other niglit, had solemn thoughts of dying, 
and sweet prospects of going from this to a higher 
sphere. The thought of dying to know more of God 
and of his works — perhaps in other systems — has oc- 
cupied my mind much lately. Surely I would not live 
here always — to die, / believe^ is gain^Xo be with 
Christ is best. 

" June 21. — The consideration that I had been three 
years almost in college, without conversing with my 
fellow-students, was heart-breaking. To go for^vard 
seemed to be too heavy a cross. What ! be pointed 

* MaUng notes on the Scriptaref, in his daily reading. Of 
these skeletons he has left hundreds, frooi i^^VeVi Yl« ^^^smi^ * 
speslk numporaneoutlj. 



348 MEMOIR or 

at ! Be subject to their ridicule and reproacb ! Do thii 
all alone ! The struggle was great, but it came to thisi 
liesolved, in the presence of God and by his help, to 
begin and do my duty in college, in conversing with 
my companions in study. I repeated the resolution, 
and afterwards felt much relief. O that some would 
come over and help. But if not a soul comes to my 
help, I am to see and converse with the students of 
this college, if they will allow it, cost what it will. 
My character is not worth a cent, nor my influence ; 
nor my acquirements, aside from the service of God— 
O for help. While at prayers, my burden left me iu 
consideration of this truth : ' If any man will be my 
disciple, let him deny himself and take vp his crost 
and follow me.' The thought of having my name cast 
out as evil for ChrisVs sake, sent sweet exultation 
into my soul. While there, I determined to invite a 
class-mate into my room and talk with him. It came 
in the way, but my heart well nigh failed me. But I 
addressed him — he followed me, and I pray God, who 
witnessed the interview, to raise in power to his own 
glory what was sown in weakness. 

"July 2.— Sabbath. — The past week has been one of 
crosses. The cross which I have laid hold on with so 
much difficulty, I have only dragged since. AVith twen- 
ty impenitent companions, I have attempted to speak 
in reference to eternal things. The mouths of most 
were stopped. They listened and assented to the truth. 

" I never had such views of some passages of Scrip- 
ture : ^ Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and 
persecute you, and say all manner of evil against you 
falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad ; 
for great is yout tewwA Vn \ieviwk\ ^«t %» \ft\^ft»Qta»l 



JAMES BRAinfiRD TAYLOR. 349 

they the prophets which were before you.* ' Who shall 
harm you, if ye be followers of that which is good.' * It 
is sufficient that the servant be as his Master, and the 
disciple as his Lord.' ' If they have persecuted »ic, they 
will also persecute you.' ' Consider him that endured 
such contradiction of sinners against himself, lest ye be 
weary and faint in your minds.' * Ye have not yet re- 
sisted unto blood? ' No weapon formed against thee 
shall prosper.' 

"The long-suffering patience of God towards sin- 
ners, daring, Qod-hating sinners, such as I once was, 
wears a new aspect. If I hate their ways — if I am 
pained at their wickedness, how must infinite purity 
look upon them ! Surely it can make no compromise 
with sin. The least sin is infinitely hateful in God's 
sight ; and the day is coming when his enemies must 
feel it so in their dreadful punishment. 

" The honor and cause of God were never more dear 
to me. Last evening's devotions were peculiarly melt- 
ing. I never had such a burning desire and such ear- 
nest wrestlings for sinners in this college. I wept sore, 
and left the cause of God and the honor of his great 
name suspended upon his rigtiteous sovereignty, 
where I also wish to hang. It was a time of sweet 
relief. I gained the liberty which I needed. 

" In view of my late attempts here, I find much to 
humble me. I asked the Lord to cast a veil of pardon 
over my best deeds — hesi I indeed, I could see no good- 
ness in them ; but I saw that he can reach down his 
sovereign arm and pluck these sinners as brands from 
the burning. Had a refreshing season in the meeting 
with the brethren, as usual, on Saturday night. In 
pn/er/or ihe Holy Ghost to be "^ow*^ ovjx^a %.« 

30 *•*■*'*• 



850 MEMOIR OP 

reign gift, I was melled and stopped, and repeated the 
cry, Lord Jesus, come quickly. 

"• Nine o'clock, evening. — I have felt, and to this hoar 
feel, that the glory is eclipsed. During sermon this A. 
M., I listened with interest. In one part of the apph- 
cation, power seemed to attend the word ; and I earn- 
estly prayed that it might go to the hearts of sinnen 
present. The desire was so intense, that it seemed to 
partake of the spirit of Moses at the rock. I felt that 
it did not lie with meekness on the sovereignty of 
God. A hardness came into my soul — I lamented, 1 
bewailed it. It is now there. O ! sin, what hast thou 
done ? enough to sink my soul to hell. Sin, the least 
sin presses heavily on me. I see that it is an infinite 
evil ; and that those who enter heaven sin no more. 
This makes heaven in my view chiefly desirable. ' The 
heaven that I desire, is a heaven of holiness.' But 
what of this ? What if I had been as holy as an angel ? 
One sin resting on me is a load too heavy to be borne ; 
and here it becloudd every object, and cools every ser- 
vice. Lo, I feel it — and will God forgive me ? Will 
he take away my stony heart ? Will he give me a heart 
of flesh ? O ! how it dries up my spirits ! I oflfer no ex- 
cuse; for there is none for sin. But I did not intend 
to interfere with the sovereignty of God. If in any 
tiling, I think in this my soul has rejoiced. And if I 
perish, let God reign. If I be dashed like a potter's 
vessel, let God reign, and reign for ever. I will bear 
the indignation of the Lord, because I have sinned 
against him ; until he plead my cause, and ezecate 
judgment for me : he will bring me forth to light, and 
I shall behold his righteousness. For if we sin, we 
have an advocate wiiYi vV^ Y^\^«^^ ^^"a^a CVxUi the 



JjUlC£8 BRAINERD TAYLOR. 351 

righteous, who is the propitiation for our sins, and his 
blood cleanseth from all sin. This one thing I desire, 
and will still seek after, to be holy and wise." 

We regret to say that the foregoing extracts termi- 
nate Mr. Taylor's diary, with the exception of a small 
fragment in the year 1828, which shall be noticed in 
its place. It is plain, indeed, that this valuable exercise 
had been followed through the intervening time, but 
the record was probably destroyed by himself, as. it 
was not found among his papers. We regret this the 
more, because, as he advanced in his course, he be- 
came more and more occupied, so that his letters, as 
far as they have been recovered, are not so numerous, 
and for the most part written in haste. Still, however, 
materials sufficient are in hand to enable us to form a 
complete estimate of Mr. Taylor's character, and to 
hold him up as affording a most instructive example 
to Christians, students, candidates for the ministry, 
and ministers of the Gospel. 

To his brother F., Mr. Taylor wrote on the 8th of 
August, and referring to the misconduct of some mem- 
bers of college, says, 

^'How happy, my dear brother, that heaven has 
placed a barrier between us and such excesses. Let 
us be humble and thankful. Let us consecrate those 
powers to God which others prostitute in the service 
of sin and Satan." 

To another of his brothers, an elder in one of the 
churches in New York, he wrote about the same time^ 
as follows : 



le ^Um/KBt^A^W ■ v . V 



" Th«t HhA liitki Zm,- •n>«wk9M wails. fM Jhw 
your pkec," gatli«r-'t(i«;^ptl^ is good n^ws. May tlkfl 
tree plai^ltd in flamli ft toil, strike d$ep Um roots asd 
shoot wide its branches* Blossoms, it seems, 'faavo al- 
ready ripened into frnii: Blsy soeeessit^ spring* set- 
sons come Tonnd, snd.no blight sppeac; Msj' the hesit 
of yoor beloTed pastor^- sad ihe besrts^ of the afliee* 
besfsrs, and of the little Aoek, -all rejoics tngether ia 
the ingathering of not a little fruit. > In the wv*^?ng 
sow thy s€^, and in the -evening withhold not thy 
hand/ And msy yonrinqdiry, both eai ly and lala^ at 
his fenlple, meet with responses to eneoorsga and sai* 
mate yotf all to do ma^ for Zioa. ^O'Zioo, Ika 
hringesc good tidings !' Whal^ eke is worth living fori 
Dear brother, may oar sensibilities be most lander ibr 
Zion— bleeding Zion — Zion, agsinst whioh the wkM 
are arrayed ; but whose cause God, angels, and samts 
have espoused, and will never desert. How strong oor 
ccnsolation ! for when we lend our aid to this caitt9$f 
we are sure that it will prosper. Hath the Lord said 
it, and shall he not do it 9 Those whose hearts hare 
been enlarged fo embark ia this cause, but who now, 
from reverses in business, must curtail their contribo- 
tioDs, will not repine that so much has been safely 
lodged. Will not the Lord recompense them a hun- 
dred fold ? 

*' When any fail, it is an affliction ; but how moeh 
greater the affliction when the benevolent fail ! Tme, 
God can open new^untains and multiply streams, 
when some are dried up: and, before Z ion's csnse 
shall fail for want of fhnds, will he not pnloA the 
esrtVt coffejj^iad bring forth million^ iNs^atd? 
We need not fesx*, tYiowi^kii ^^ iMtidsl^'CMLssem 




JAMES BRAIN ER9 TAYLOR. 353 

fewer at present than his enemies, yet his resources 
ure infinite. 

^^ Brother, do you not think it more noble to act and 
labor against opposing influences^ than it would be if 
the multitude fell in with the benevolence of the day ? 
I think a brighter crown awaits such noble daring ef- 
forts as the apostles, and martyrs, and reformers, and 
some since their day, have made, than even the efforts 
of those who may live in the millennium : and simply 
for this reason ; because the cross will be less heavy 
to bear when all take part with heaven. May our ef- 
forts be made with a single eye. The less conspicuous 
here, the more renowned hereafter. Christ was little 
known, and less honored, ' His name, however, shall 
be great among the heathen,' and his right to reign 
shall be duly acknowledged : for to him ' every knee 
shall bow, and every tongue confess.' 

" Could I gain access to the benevolent ones around 
you, who already do so much, I would lament with 
them that so much wealth lies dormant in their city, 
when it might be employed for the eternal interests 
of men. I could tell some who hold their pennies so 
close, what I overheard the other day : — ^ I wish I had 
twenty dollars to help my brother through the next 
term in college.' This was said by one who had strug- 
gled long and hard for his own education. This man, 
too, bids fair to bless mankind \ and his brother has 
lately professed conversion, and has the ministry in 
Tiew." 

At the commencement, in September of this year, 
he took hit degree of A. B. in NasMQ-Hall, and left 

30^ 



354 Kfitfoifi OP 

the place with the view of connecting himself with 
the Theological Seminary at New-Haven. 



CHAPTER VII. 

In the Theological Seminary, 

On Mr. Taylor's arrival at New-York from Prince- 
ton, he was attacked severely with pain, whi6h pro- 
bably laid the foundation of that disease which car- 
ried him to an early grave ; or rather was the com- 
mencement of the disease itself, from which he seems 
never to have perfectly recovered. To a friend in 
Piinceton, and to his parents, he wrote about the mid 
die of October, giving some account of his illness. 

" Since I left Princeton, with short intervals, I have 
had pain upon pain ; have been bled and blistered on 
each side ; relief, however, has been only temporary. 
At times the anguish has been almost overpowering. 
Indeed it has been a sore trial ; yet many a time in my 
distress I have exclaimed. This is not Gethsemane— 
this is not the cross — this is not Iiell. Grace, I think, 
lias triumphed in the midst of suiSering. And I doubt 
not of the final good result of this affliction ; ^ light, 
and but for a moment ;' — light, and but for a moment, 
in comparison with what it might be, and with what 
I deserve. How long I may yet be confined I know 
aot, I need not know, li u «Q!Qrai%lv that God knows 



JAMES E^AINEED TAYLOR. 366 

wnat IS best, and that is best for me. My desire is to 
be located at New-Haven, by a week from next Wed- 
nesday. Thither I expect to go and remain for the 
present. There is no fever attending my complaint ; 
it appears to be a rheumatic affection." 

To his Parents. 

" The Lord knoweth the rod that he hath laid upon 
me. His grace hath borne me up under its weight, so 
that I have rejoiced in tribulation. In the midst of 
judgment great have been the mercies I have received. 
I have not words to express my obligations to God for 
the rich manifestations of his love — when writhing in 
anguish of body I have thrown myself on his kind arm, 
and he hath sustained me. I think in the midst of it 
all he has kept me, measurably, in a childlike spirit, 
for my greatest concern has been to acquiesce perfect- 
ly in the will of God. 

'^ This too has solaced me. The suffering time of 
the Christian will be over — it will come to an end ; 
and this too — the pain of this day, this hour, this mo- 
ment is never to be felt a second time. So much of 
the cup has been drunk, and the cup that my Father 
hath given me shall I not drink it ? 

" The views vouchsafed, both of the past and future, 
have been enlarged. I never saw myself to have been 
so unprofitable a servant. By grace, through faith, the 
prospect of laboring, suffering, or dying, seemed aU 
one; only let God's will be done." 

The only remaining memorial of this year is a let- 
ter written late in the month of Deccmb«i^ ^vvvDk%%x^ 



356 HLMOIB OP 

account of his uriTal at New-Haven — hia leceptioa 
ibto the theological seminaiy, and of the goodness of 
God manifested in his proTidence and in his gracious 
commiinieations. Of his health he says, though ex- 
posed to cold and the effects of fatigue, " My eongk 
and cold hare well nigh disappeared — I think I am 
every way better.'* 

During the remainder of his life, Mr. Taylor devoted 
himself less than hitherto to correspondence with his 
friends, a change which he attributes to a loss of re- 
lish for this sort of exercise, and the fact that more of 
his time was oceopied m writing, as he pursued his 
preparatory course. Another reason may be found— 
which perhaps did not attract his attention — in the iik- 
someness of a writing posture to one whose chest had 
begun to be affected by an incurable disease. 

From the letters which hare come into our hands 
we shall present the reader with such extracts as maf 
throw light on his character, or, in our judgment af- 
ford matter of instruction and of religious excitement 
to Christians, and to candidates for the ministry— or 
may serve to illustrate the power of grace in bringing 
the whole being into conformity to God. 

The first is addressed to a pious family, near Prince- 
ton, with which Mr. Taylor had much Christian in- 
tercourse during his college life, and at whose house 
he frequently held meetings for religious exercises. 

" NeW'Baven, Pdtmary 11, 1837. 
•• 1V> tiM 4Mr FamOj tkat dwaO la tlM Valte]r : 

^^ Of my location in this place you may not have 



JAMES BRAINERO TAYLOR. 357 

been informed. I address you with the testimony that 
tiie good hand of God has been upon me for good. 

" Of my illness in New-York you were probably ap- 
prised. Detained as I was, I doubt not but the Lord 
saw in that sickness a link in the chain of my prepa- 
ration for the holy ministry not unimportant. The re- 
mains of the attack I feel about me almost daily. So, 
you sec, I have a daily memento of my mortality as I 
am traveling to the grave. At this recital I conjec- 
ture th&t your sympathies are all awake ; and I be- 
lieve your overflowing kind feelings would not be slow 
in devising something for my relief— give me yo'' . 
prayers, — I trust you do. Your fireside I How gXdiiiiy 
would I spend a season in that family circle. Thi- 
ther my willing feet have tended ; but not so often as 
I desired. That you welcomed me ever, I owe you 
my kindest regards. The interviews enjoyed, if not 
on earth, I trust will be renewed in heaven. You too 
have been visited with sickness. You doubtless will 
reply, 

* What charming words are these ? 

* Their sweetness who can tell 1 

* [n time, and to eternity, 

' ' TU with ifie HgkieoM well: 

Looking upon our cup as from a father's hand, takes 
away its bitterness, and the cup of consolation over- 
flows. 

"When ill, dear L came in and knelt beside 

my bed. I could not but mark one of his expressions. 
He thanked God that I had had a trial of my graces. 
Truly it is a matter of thankfulness that our faith, and 
|>atience, and resignation are tried. Otherwise, how 
should we know that we possessed vVicm. \l •&. ^xva.^ 



356 MEMOIR OF 

possess a coin, the genuineness of which he doubts, a 
test applied will satisfy him. So when one passes 
through the furnace which our heavenly Father pre- 
pares for the trial of his children, though it be heated 
seven fold,* if he be a true Christian he endures the 
trial. When one is so tried, he finds that it is one 
thing to talk of patience and resignation, and quite 
another to exercise them. If we consider a moment, 
Ave may see how important it is that the way to hea- 
ven lies through much tribulation. When the termi- 
nating hour of the Christian arrives, his trials temii- 
nate. If he exercise no patience in this world, he coa*d 
never exercise it at all ; for what is there in heaven to 
call this grace into exercise ? But the Lord knows 
what ia best, and that is best for me. This was my 
song day and night when racked with pain. 

^' I hope you are all abiding under the shadow of the 
Almighty — rejoicing in the light of God's countenance 
— sweetly visited with the presence of Jesus — and 
filed with the Holy Ghost. 

' Children of the heavenly King, 
As ye joumeyt sweetly slug; 
Sing your Savior^s worthy praise. 
Glorious in his works and ways. 
Ye are travelling home to God, 
In the way the fathers trod ; 
They are happy now — and ye 
Soon their happiness shall see.' 

*' May you fellow on to know the Lord — follow nard 
after him — have the intercourse between heaven and 
your souls open and free — hold fellowship with tht» 
Father, and with his Son Jesus Christ. Thus you 
wJlJ aJvaoce io an ouwaxd aiw^i upuard ^lONwst. ^-sjj^ 



JAMES tRAt?SCRD TAYLOR 359 

the blessing of Qod rest upon you all, through life — 
at death, may an entrance be administered unto you 
abundantly into the ereriasting kingdom of our Lord 
and Savior Jesus Christ. In the best of bonds, 

"James B. Taylor." 

To the Rev. Mr. L. Mr. Taylor wrote, on hearing 
that he had been bleeding at the lungs. 

** New Haven, March 17, 1827. 
*• My dear, very dear Ij. 

^' I will not, for I cannot tell you bow often the ex- 
pression, ' dear L,' has escaped my lips to-day. In- 
deed since last evening, when I heard that you were 
ill and had bled at the lungs, I have been cast down 
on your account, on ray own, and on account of the 
cburch. And now, in part to roll off the burden that 
rests on my heart, 1 address you. It is a burden that 
would gladly find its way through my eyes ; but my 
eyes refuse to weep. 

" When I had written the above, I said I will go and 
pray. I did : and now resume my pen. O my brother, 
what a resort is the throne of grace ! It is there we 
Hnd broken hearts. There we obtain a right spirit. 
Thence we come refreshed, having cast our burdens 
on the Lord. 

* Long as they live should Christians pray, 
For ouly while they pray, they live.* 

" I told the Lord that I was afflicted on your ac- 
count, on my own, and on account of the church. 1 
asked him, if it were possible, to bring you out oC l^% 
fjrnace as goldj and in full healtVi*, \o\vs^ Xo^^^ ^^^ 



360 MEMOIR OF 

under bim, to be tbe means of peopling hearen. Bot 
above all, I pleaded for yonr soul's best interests, and 
asked for tbe best blessings to rest upon you* I thanked 
the Lord for one I lored so dearly, for Christ's sake— 
I thanked him for our acquaintance and fellowship. 
Think of the assemblage of associations rising in mj 
mind — seasons together at Princeton — seasons in New- 
York — Heaven bless you — I am affected at their re- 
membrance. They are green spots in this wilderness. 
I thanked God for the prospect of meeting you in hea- 
ven. Meeting you in heaven ! Here my heart broke* 
What, /meet you in heaven ! 1 be admitted to so ho- 
ly a place ! Is it possible ! I eiclaimed, with melt- 
ing heart and streaming eyes, can it be that I, who am 
so unfit, shall ever enter a holy heaven ! Thank the 
Lord for the sinking I felt — yet bow far short were 
my views of that depth which I deserve. It seemed 
that if an anchor were fastened to my neck, and I 
were sunk into the deepest hell, I should not have half 
my desert; for how often, how aggravatedly, how 
long have I sinned ! Heaven may forgive rae ; but I 
can never, no never, forgive myself. 

"Brother L., in view of the prospect, I cry out, 
What shall I do ? I do truly feel that I am undone as 
to preaching the Gospel, unless God do great things 
for me. To-day I have desired to lay me down and 
die, rather than live to dishonor God and his cause: 
and unless he keep me I shall. My experience tella 
me I shall: for alas! how often have I dishonored 
him already, and have thus lost his smiles ! How of- 
ten wounded my Savior, and thereby felt the absence 
of the Beloved— grieved the Spirit, and thus lost my 
Comforter \ \ is tVieie \ti\v^;sc^«vv w ^•wSJ^'^ ^sxjassei 



JAM£3 BRMMERO "TAYLOR. 361 

monument of grace ? or one that is more a sinner 7 
No words can express the sin, for which I deserve an 
exceeding and eternal weight of damnation. Well, 
brother, however ill-deserving, I hope I have a gar- 
ment in which I shall be accepted at the marriage 
supper. For this you have prayed'^still pray, and 
pray till your voice falters in death, that I may wear 
the garment, and keep it unspotted. Then, whether 
you precede me or not, we shall both hope to enter and 
sit down at a table spread with heavenly food. O ! 
how rich the feast prepared for the followers of the 
Lamb I I would not keep back one saint from glory — 
not even my mother — nor thee, my brother L. No : 
if the good and great Shepherd will take one of his un- 
der-shepherds from an imperfect to a perfect service, 
I will say, amen, and hope to follow in due time. 
Brother, do you think that you are soon to exchange 
worlds? Think you that you have turned aside to 
die ? If so, may you be gathered as a shock of corn 
in its season, fully ripe." 

" NeW'Haven, March, 1837. 

'*Ny crer dear Mother, 

'* I hoped before this to receive intelligence from 
home respecting your illness ; but not a word ; I there- 
fore presume you are no worse. 

* 1 am glad that I went home ; for I trust I was permit- 
ted to add a little to your comfort in kneeling beside 
you and supplicating for mercy and grace in your behalf. 
Had I not believed that you consulted my progress in 
study, I should have remained longer ; but you would 
rather that both be denied the pleasure of each others 

society, than that I should be lelaidedmitvs ^^wt^"^^ 

3 1 i.^TvsXw 



<r^ 



•»■'. 



.^'' 



2t» wtaMT-iffik-tt^f" 



^AboTe ally I rejoiced^ year- gamghtiiMi AH 
•bounded. Andmycom(bitiMuibeeii,'wlMaIliKveii^ 
membered my dear mother, that the Lmrd lillad thi 
light of his countenance upon yon, and euiaed y(Ni.to 
rejoice in that light. Had yoa not the hope of etenal 
life, what gloom would spread aioond you I With 
this hope, the pathway to the toinb is illuaunated, anl 
each snceessiye step is one more towarda a «oc|d of 
brightness and blessed fruition. Yes, there is aome- 
thing beyond time worth dying to possess. Beaven— 
the society of Gpd — angeb and saints — the eternitf of 
ever increasing joy^ . Sin will be no mora.^ Friend^ 
who are the children of God, will not be aeparated^ 
they will have one home, one serviee, ona inteiest, 
and they will surround the same throne. How happf 
our friends who have gone thither ! How.happy thef 
who are on their journey, when they shall join those 
who have gone before ! 

'' May my dear mother, in this time of trial, find her 
faith increased — her hopes stronger — her prospects 
brightened, and her pace quickened. 

^ We hope — for we pray — that our mother may yet 
be spared to us. But were I to be called to die — to be 
with Christ, let none keep me back. However trying 
it would be, I hope for sustaining grace, if called to 
bury my mother, and to live in the prospect of meeting 
her— my father — and some, if not all of the family, at 
the right hand of the Judge. 

" In this sickness still keep your mind stayed on 
God ; lean on the arm of the Lord — commune with 
J' i may you be filled with the Spirit. 

"Your son, with increased affection. 



n 



JAMES BRAXNERD TAYLOR. 363 

In a letter bearing date April 2, 1827, Mr. Taylor 
wrote to his brother, informing hira of the commence- 
ment of a revival of religion in Yale College ; in con- 
sequence of which, he says, "as a class, we have 
given up our instructor for the present session." 

At the same time Mr. Taylor was invited by the 
pastor of the church in Bridgeport, and subsequently 
in Trumbull, where a work of grace was in progress, 
to go over and help them. From these places he 
wrote several letters to his friends, giving an account 
of the work, and of the success of his labors : from 
which it appears, though the truth is told with much 
modesty, that the Lord honored his young servant 
with a success which, together with his piety and the 
acceptance he met from the people, gave high promise 
of usefulness. To his mother he wrote : " Tlie min- 
isters where I am laboring, license me verbally, so 
that I preach as really as they do. They send me in- 
to the pulpit, &c. This is of their seeking, not mine." 

To a brother whom he greatly loved, who, it would 
seem, had questioned the propriety of the course he was 
pursuing, Mr. Taylor replied in the following letter: 

" Trumlndl, May 3, 1827. 
* My ever dear Brother, 

" Your fraternal epistle reached me last evening, af- 
ter the fatiguing labors of another day. Did you know 
how it refreshed me to hear from you, perhaps you 
would write oftener. 

" Of all people in the world, I have the least reason 
to doubt the tender regard and timely solicitude of my 
brothers. Too much has been manifested on your 
part, to leave me in doubt as lo yoxn b^^x K^^Xxssk!??** \. 



am fbllf ttfemuded tbst f^mott oordial 4miiM an 
enliited for my welfare; and often with weapiBg bate 
I tiiatiked onr common Fal]ier that. I hare relataoM 
and friends so valtiable as yon, and as yoa have both 
prored yennelTes to be to the. nn worthiest. Even 
noW| spontaneous tesrs fill my eyeS|* and my aonl 
breathee the peayer, May hearen bless yon bodi) and 
all ynurs, now and for erer. 

^'All the 'power' that belongs to me 'eeelesiasti- 
cally,' ia that pf aiay membec, for I am ranpl|r a mem- 
ber of the Oedar-street efa|urch.. As soch, it becomes 
me, in common with my brethren, to ' do good to alL' 
What greater good than that of wmning^ their aonls.to 
Christ? To aUempt Udij it the duty of the weaketfl, 
08 well (u ^e numt giganiic servant of Je9U9, . 

" That I haTe a call of God, besides, to fireacJt the 
Gospel, I have no more doubt than of my existence. 
This I count a blessing, one I did not enjoy when I 
began to prepare for this work. But since I received 
it, it has been peculiarly satisfactory ; and what all do 
not have the happiness to possess. It did not become 
mine, but through strong cries, and many tears, and 
wrestlings, when I was in college. In grateful re- 
membrance of that season, my pen has stopped, to 
weep-— and thank the Lord. It is a blessing of his im- 
parting. Not to me, but to Him be the praise. It is 
a blessing of great worth to any one who attempts to 
preach the Gospel, to feel that he has a commission 
from God. I now feel as I have felt: < Wo is me, it 
I preach not the €k>spel.' 

*• The power that I now exercise, if I exercise any, 

is this, simply this, and no more than this^^ ^ Speaking 

"vth to my neigUxx? Xae\u ^ \ \^. "IVVi \ ^ 



JAMES fiRAINERD TAYLOR. 365 

'publicly, and from house to house,' by night and by 
day, as I have opportunity. What I do, is done under 
the sanction and wish of the regularly. ordained pastors 
of these churches ; and, if I mistake not, from the ex- 
pressions of some, in accordance with the ardent 
wishes of the churches themselves. If this be wrong, 
let a man prove it so, and I will cease to do wrong. 
What matters it whether I take my stand in a pulpit 
or on a stump in the fields ? If in the church, why 
under the pulpit rather than in it ? If the question be 
decided by convenience, both for the audience and the 
speaker, the pulpit is the place. To me this seems to 
be straining at a gnat and swallowing a camel. Knock 
down the pulpit and raise a platform ; to me it makes 
no difference where I stand ; but I like to see the peo- 
ple, and the hearers generally like to see the speaker. 

'^ It is known that I am a student of theology. The 
minister, in the church, and when present at other 
meetings, always pronounces the benediction. When 
absent, I close the meeting with a short prayer. ' I am 
not ashamed.' Why should I be ? God approves — 
sinners are awakened and converted — meetings are 
crowded — houses are opened to receive me — the work 
of God is advancing — the harvest whitens. Says the 
minister, with affection and emphasis — * We love you, 
and wish you here ' — praying for me, and unwilling 
that I should leave him. 

" When the cry is all around, Help, help, help, shall 
I close my mouth because a man may make a distinc- 
tion between a pulpit and something else, when no 
such distinction is made by the Bible ? Never — were I 
to die to-day, I feel that I ought not to hold my peace ; 
and as I know of no statute that £ot\>\^^TD^ T^jKCMca.'^'^ 

31* 



I 



S66 UMOIR OP 

text to speak from, and as I find this the most conre- 
nient for myself, and every way acceptable to those 
who hear me I preswne I shall not be censored for 
this. 

^* The question is, What u right 7 not what this or 
that man says, withoat alledging his proof. Shall I 
hold my peace ? My labors have been so great for 
some time past, yoa need not be surprised if I turn 
aside and rest awhile. I shall be glad once more to 
fall into your embraces, and to be refreshed in your 
mansion. 

'' May you increase more and more in this world's 
goods, but especially be rich towards God. Through 
your munificence I abound, and am now, as I always 
have been, your obliged and affectionate brother, 

« J. B. T.» 

To the fame. 

" Neto-Haven, June, 1827. 
^^ My dear Brother, 

" After I left you m New-York, I returned to Trum- 
bull, and found the state of things increasingly inter- 
esting. I spent the last Sabbath there : between thirty 
and forty attended the inquiry meeting. A solemnity 
rests on the minds of many : indeed the whole parish 
seem awed. To what it will come I know not — as 
many as twenty have expressed hope. The church 
are singularly alive, and seem much united. 

" I am here ; and the principal work before me for 
the summer is the study of the Scriptures, which I 
love. 

" I hope you enjoy nearness of access to God day 



lAMES B&AINSRD TAYLOR. 367 

by day. This afternoon my soul was exceedingly re- 
freshed. May yours be doubly so — nay, a hundred fold. 
" Your affectionate James." 

The reader will recollect with what agonizing earn- 
estness, and persevering importunity, Mr. Taylor pray- 
ed for the conversion of his friend L. P. both while 
at Lawrenceville and at Princeton, as noted in our ex- 
tracts from his diary. That he did not pray in vain» 
will be seen from the following letter, dated 

" New-Haveny June 29, 1827. 
* My dear, detr BroCher, 

" Is it — is it true ? The intelligence of this morn- 
ing, let me assure you, gladdened my heart. The 
mingled emotions of my soul sent me weeping to my 
kneeling-place, with thanksgiving on your behalf, and 
to pray again for the friends I always loved, but who 
now in our Lord Jesus Christ are dearly beloved. 

" The language of my heart has been, since I saw 
Mr. B., O that I could see you, were it but for half an 
hour ; for I would listen to you, and peradventure tell 
you how, in days gone by, I have felt, and wept, and 

prayed for you : for none, as for my dear friend P , 

have I ever and so often agonized in secret places. 
The thought of spending a happy eternity at God's 
right hand with you, well nigh broke my heart thU 
morning ; now my soul rejoices in the prospect. 

" Having tasted that the Lord is gracious, and felt 
solicitude for those whom you have left in their sins, 
you will now interpret what perhaps you might, at one 
time, have thought tntnmve in me, as flowing from 
benevolence, overflowing benevolence^ i^x ^csvn \)i«^ 



368 fiiEMOiR or 

interests. Indeed it was so; and not unfrequcntly was 
my soul sweetly yisited when in prayer to €rod for my 
friend P . Thus you have my whole heart. 

^'By a note from Mr. B. I learn that at the last com- 
munion thirty-eight were added to the church. Hap- 
py days for L. ! Did I know the names of the indi- 
viduals, I might recognize not a few old acquaintances. 

"Comparing 'the fruits of the Spirit, love, joy, 
peace,' &c. with the joys of former days, do you not 
exclaim, in amazement, Where have I heen so long? 
And while you feast on the provisions of the Lord's 
liouse, does not your soul cry out, Evermore give me 
this hread ? To them who grieve not the Holy Spirit, 
he is rich and ever new in his manifestations. From 
the height of one attainment we rise to another, till, 
instead of * from grace to grace,' it shall be from glory 
to glory. 

" Since I had the pleasure of seeing you, as you 
have probably heard, I have, in the view of others, been 
over the grave's mouth. From my attack last fall I 
am well nigh recovered. To me the visitation was of 
no little importance. I thank our heavenly Father for 
It. It was from a Father's hand. Though racked with 
pain of body, my soul enjoyed the presence of God. 

" Shall I tell you that more than ever I feel the im- 
portance of being wholly devoted to God ? Well may 
every Christian, and especially every minister, lay 
himself out for God, as a co-worker with him. Each 
in his own sphere may do something. Happy the man 
who gathers but one sheaf! * They that turn many to 
righteousness shall shine as the stars for ever and 
ever.' But I need not urge you to action. Doubtless 
you have been up and CloVivw Vv\\v >5^i>3jt mx^v Y^^vihtf 



JAMES BBAINERD TAYLOR. 3G9 

less you are daily walking with God, and find the 
blessedness of it in secret, in the family, in the social 
circle, in the house and ordinances of God, in your 
walks of usefulness and deeds of well-doing. I bid 
you, with all my heart I bid you, Grod speed 

^^ Let me tell you that God puts honor upon my at- 
tempts in his service. Suffice it to say, he gives what 
I think I am most athirst for — souls. Lately I have 
been in two revivals. 

" Often, when in L ^ my fellowship was with 

the Father, and with his Son Jesus Christ — often 
when in Princeton. Associated with those places are 
not a few of the greenest spots in my wilderness. 
Here, too, in New-Haven, Heaven deigns to refresh 
me with gracious rains. Pray that the fruit may be 
unto everlasting life. 

'* How often have I contemplated your fireside as 
one of the happiest Has it, now, what shall be both 
^ grace and glory ' to it ? I doubt not your willing feet 
bring you to the domestic altar with your morning and 
evening sacrifice. On that altar may a prayer now 
and then be ofiered for one, even for me, who would 
be holy and wise — holy, to please God, and wise, to 
win souls. 

" In the best of bonds, yours truly, 

" James B. Taylor." 

As evidence of Mr. Taylor's devotedness to the 
cause of his Master, his readiness to labor in that 
cause, the estimation in which his labors were held 
by the people, and of his own continued spirituality, 
we give the following brief extracts from letters writ- 
ten the last of July and 1st August) \^^1. 



370 HMMcmow 

" With pwity good bodily healUiL I am Uessed witb 
what aboTO all things we value, the lenewed Tiaitt ol 
our Father's lore, the |»cesenco o£ Jesus, and the in- 
coming of the Holy Spirit. For a season past, my en- 
joyment }n, dirine things has been ttncfHEoinon. 

''Somehow I am drawn in to labor, besides my 
studies. On Friday erenings I meet a company, lo 
whom I try to speak the truth with all plauuiBSs. Thii 
meeting is made up of the higher circle of young la- 
dies of New-Haven. This is not of my ow% but of 
the seieking of others. On Saturday evenings I some- 
times address anaudienoe. On Sabbath, at two 
o'clock, I meet a Bible class ; about one hundred and 
thirty present last Sabbath. By means of the latter, 
I feel that I am profiting ; for I devote some time to 
preparation. This is the little that I am doing. 

" I may tell you with safety that God puts honor 
upon my endeavors to do good. Sinners are convert- 
ed, and saints quickened, in some few instances. Thas 
liere, as in other places where I have been located in 
my preparatory studies, I hope to have a band whom 
I love." 

In most of Mr. Taylor's letters written after his at- 
tack in New-York, there is reference to a slight indis- 
position — a rheumatic affection — the remains of his 
disease, &c. We now present the reader with one 
which shows the progress of his malady, and which 
gave the painful presage that his career of light would 
be short. 

** J^Tew-Haven, OcioUr 89, 1837. 
^BlydeorBroCber, 

^''By a letter to II— ^^wi ^VW ^ftft vViAi I was pros 



JAMES BRAINERO TAYLOR^ 371 

pered in my journey. Having arrived at New-Haven, 
and fitted my room for business, I was just ready to 
enter upon my work, when that happened whence I ap- 
prehended serious consequences. The result, however, 
is such, that, did I not fear an exaggerated report might 
reach you, I would not trouble you. Reaching my 
room, after dinner, on Friday, I coughed a little, which 
was succeeded by the discharge of some blood ; after- 
wards, a spontaneous flow of perhaps a table-spoonful. 

''Neither at the time, nor since, have I felt any ill 
consequence ; so that, judging from my feelings and 

from the opinion of Dr. I , it is thought that the 

blood came from the throaty not from the lungs, as I 
apprehended at first. 

"These are the facts: and the occurrence demands 
improvement, and calls for my grateful acknowledg- 
ments. Its first efiect was to break my heart. This 
I needed. And as the purposes of God relate to all ac- 
tual events, so it was his purpose that this should oc- 
cur. And I have looked upon it as a blessing ; for it 
brought in its train a course of things that has made 
my soul happy It has effected a desirable change in 
my feelings — 1 see that I may not be of so much im 
portance in God's system of means as I may have 
thought. 

''It has led me to conclude, that if Gk)d has laid, or 
intends to lay me aside, it is for one of these three rea- 
sons: that I should not stand in the way of others; or 
that I should not run ahead too far; or that He has 
other work for me to do in another and higher sphere 
of action. 

" This providence will probably shut me out from 
Ihose doors which I might have euX^it^ \K>\^i^\<^< 



S7S 

soaffQrd-neaiaoreqiiwtMsuoiito Iwconw aoqiniBt 
ed with theology— ft nurtter of no ■mail impoituiet. 
It is, tt kist, a readf oxense to giro for non-eowpli- 
ance with raised ezpectatioa at mf retom, wmd repeat- 
ed applleatioiis to enter the field again. 

'4t has benefited othera. Machofthe kind feel- 
ing of dear friends has heen enlisted in my hriialf— 
and some have been led to see that we know not what 
a day may bring forth. It may be that this is an erii 
which is incidental to the highest possible good to me, 
and the good to be accomplished throogh me. There- 
fore let us receiTe it at the hand of the Lord as a kind 
memento. I look upon it as a low4oketi bom his hand. 
True, I may hare brought it on myself by impmdenee, 
but I am not sensible of any so^h cause; 

" Whaterer be the result, I am in good spirits. No 
way depressed, but greatly raised. No where do I lie 
so sweetly as in the hand of Gk>d. I am looking for 
more of the presence of the Lord ; and hope to live the 
life of obedience. Living or dying, the prospect ii 
pleasant. Farewell. 

"J. B. Taylor. 

" P. S. By far more did I feel for my friends than 
foi^ myself; for I feared they would not acquiesce. 
Let us wait and see if, in all, we shall not hare occa- 
sion to say. He hath done all things weUJ* 

*' NeW'Hmoen,,M»ember B, 1837. 
*^Mf dear, rwy dear Brotker, 

"I delay not to answer your letter receiyed this 
morning ; for I feel that your past care of me, and pre* 
■ent solicitude, should be met with corresponding 
"^vssions on my paxu 



JAMES BRAINERO TAYLOR. 373 

" Since I wrote you, I have felt no inconvenience 
from my bleeding, unless it be a little soreness of the 
throat I do not apprehend, nor is it apprehended by 
others, that the blood came from my lungs. But, as 
it is well to know the worst, bleeding at the throat 
tends to produce bleeding at the lungs. It often fol- 
lows in its train, unless proper precaution be used. 
So it was with one who once lived in New-Haven, 
but who is not. Dr. Taylor mentioned his case to 
me, with the caution, * Take care.' 

" My dear brother, my heart, as you know, has been 
in the work of the ministry. I need not tell you how 
it has bled in view of turning aside. But I think I 
have said at the footstool. Lord, thou badest me go 
forward; if thou say return, amen and amen. I have 
been happy in the varied view I have taken of the 
case, and yet I hope to live and labor in the vine- 
yard. To realize this hope, I see, or seem to see, that 
it becomes me to *take care.' You need not appre- 
nend my engaging in meetings. I have not enlisted, 
nor do I purpose to enlist in public labor of any kind. 
But I would remain in quiet, patient waiting, so as, 
if possible, to Tecover ftUly. It doth not become me 
to commit suicide ; of this I feel no danger. Inclina- 
tion would bid me onward, but I think I shall hold 
the reins with a steady hand. 

" My dearest interests, my dear brother, are identi- 
fied with Christ's. As it is the purpose of God to sub- 
due rebels to himself, so I would be loyal, and enlist 
my all to subdue others — and so would you. Well, 
as becomes wise and good men, may we act our parts 
below ; then rising, it will be to move in a higher 

32 



374 



sphere, and live among th6 angela^ Hmppf^ f^oriooa 
change !— LasteTening I had a most* sweet,- filial iqp- 
proach to our hearenly Fathef . • 

^'I wish joa and mf other IKenids to understand 
that I am not cast down; far,'ftr ilrom it: and why 
should I be^ 

" O no ! as I told yon, ^it is a lore-token from Him 
who, as a fhther, pitieth his children.' Let, then, your 
thank-offering arise that it is no worsen May yoa be 
greatly comforted wiih that comfort wherewith I am 
comforted. An affectionate adien. ^ 



ti 



«<AW9-JEbiMa, Afinmfarll, 1887. 

**ll3r dear Brotlwrl. sad SiiUrK. .*•■.■■ 

"I doubt not yon now and then mention my namci 
as you conrerse around yoor fireside. Gladly would 
I interchange words with yon, and tell you how hap- 
py I am. Surely I am blessed of God. You know my 
late trial — the sweetness resulting is beyond descrip- 
tion. 

" You know that leaving business, I commenced 
preparation to preach the Gospel. My prospect of en- 
tering the ministry, as the time approached, has bright- 
ened, with longing of soul for the worL Often, in 
your hearing, have I hailed the coming day. The is- 
sue of my late bleeding may determine my fotnre em- 
ploy — nay, my stay in this world. O, my dear bro- 
ther and sister, it is sweet to lie passive in the hand 
of God, and know no will but his. But my heart is 
full. To this state of feeling I have come only 
through tears and lying low at mercy's door: and now, 
when I think of the &«Kt^ ^eax ^\«kx<:& tA-^rodoag 



JAMBS BRAINERD TAYLOR. 375 

with God in preaching the Gospel, my soul finds rea- 
dy way to my eyes. Must I — must I give it up? O 
my Father, my Father ! must I go back? It does not 
sink my spirits — far from it ; but it breaks my heart 
— tears run down my eyes. It swells my soul to un- 
utterable language, till I lie and groan before God. 

* Indeed I am not worthy to look up — how much 
less worthy to be put into the ministry I Well — for he 
that doeth all things well, knows what is best, and 
that is best for me. 

" Heaven never appeared more desirable — I have 
longed to see the King in his beauty — never did I gain 
so near access to God. Dying seems like going to my 
Father's house. And I could gladly bid adieu to the 
world — to those I tenderly love, to parents, brothers 
and sisters, to you, for my anticipated home with 
Christ, whom having not seen, I love — but I would 
willingly live and labor yet for threescore years and 
ten, nor count the time long ; for I have longed — 
longed to enter heaven, after havmg, under God, been 
the means of sending multitudes inither. 

'* The cup which has been put into my hands I 
would drink ; yet my heart's prayer has been, ' If it be 
possible, let this cup pass.' I have felt this evening, 
that if God would but speak the word, his servant 
should be healed. This, however, may not be best : 
surely, then, you and I should willingly say, * The 
Lord reigneth.' 

'^ To contemplate this hand that moves to address 
you, stiffened in death — to view this ' mud -walled cot- 
tage,' already shaken and tottenng, fallen to the 
ground — is sweet — for should I not sleep sweetly ? O 
yes, and my active spirit, which uoyj eVva.^^ Vi ^^««».^ 



376 WSMOIR OP 

would be adoring, acdve and wondering among the 
spirits of the just made perfect. 

*' Dear, dear brother and sister, it is but a little woy 
from this to yonder mansions. We each expect to find 
a welcome resting-place. How sweet the earnest! 
Only a little while, and we shall be there. 

" Affectionately, James. 

*' P. S. Since K. left, I have not noticed any blood, 
save this morning, when a little streak was expecto- 
rated. I should not mention this, but you would know 
the true state of the case. Rheumatism makes me an 
old man.'' 

It will not be uninteresting to introduce here some 
of the conversation of Mr. Taylor at this time, illus- 
trative of his feelings in view of the incident to which 
we have alluded. It was noted down by a friend who 
was a resident in the same family at the time, and his 
frequent companion. 

*' When first attacked with bleeding," writes his 
friend, ^' he callea me into his room and remarked, 
^ You see, my dear brother, to what God is calling me. 
I am not frightened : my mind is perfectly composed 
and happy. I have desired to live and preach iheGoe« 
pel, but the will of the Lord be done. I believe that 
God has in reserve a better portion for his people, in 
heaven, than in this world. TViis is a good world — I 
have no reason to complain of this world — I am not 
tired of it — I am happy to continue here, so long as it 
is the pleasure of my heavenly Father that I should. 
I cannot say, so far as my individual interest is con- 
cerned, that I have an^ cVkoivt^ ^V\ft\Vv«t \a Iwe or lo 



JAMES BRAINERD TATLOB. 377 

die. If God has no more for me to do in this world, I 
should be happy to die here, and go from this room to 
my home in heaven.' 

'* Here we both paused in silence for some minutes, 
when the recollection of his friends came over his 
mind, and he added, ^ But, O my dear friends ' — here 
his tears burst forth profusely ; and he wept in silence 
for some time, and then continued, ' My dear parents, 
brothers, and friends have been so kind to me, and 
have so much anticipated my becoming a minister of 
the Gospel, that my heart is pained, deeply pained at 
the thought of their expectations being disappointed : 
but this is good for me, it is just what I needed.' 

*^ After a short silence he said, ^ My dear brother, I 
now am sensible that I sinned in indulging that re- 
pining thought : I now feel perfectly resigned to the 
whole will of God. I am happy — perfectly happy.' 

" The next morning he said, ' My soul melted down 
before God last night, when I continued to ask him to 
let me live and preach the Gospel — but I cheerfully 
submitted all to him. O, brother, ^od has made such 
discoveries to my soul as I never expected or dared 
to hope for in this world. It is wonderful ! wonderful ! 
my body can hardly contain this immortal being that 
struggles within ! I am willing to live my threescore 
years and ten. I wish for it only that I may preach 
the Gospel ; but I shall be happy to finish my work, 
and mount away to Jesus !' 

'^ Nov. 14th, evening. — He said, ' This has been a 
wonderful day to me. This morning I bled a little — 
just enough to remind me of my condition — I am 
thankful for it, for God has by it made this day an 
antepast of heaven to my souL^ 

32* 



. J-« 



378 

^ Nov^ 16^' AfflktMMia^ Mid brodier Tsylor lUi 
mocniBg, * axe goodybeeaoM Uitf oome Uiden witk t 
rich blessing. I wish all the world to expexiMiee the 
same that I do— not mj {mine, hat tiie blessings whiek 
attend them : every pain throngh which I pass, I think 
that now I have taken one portion more of the oap— I 
shall never have that pain again, but the blessiBg 
which it brought to me will endue for ever. After 
all,' said he^ ' what are my pains? They are not Qeth- 
semane — they are not the cross.' He then repeated 
the hymn : 

' O wkat are aU my raffbrii^ )M»e»' Sic* 

" Again, * 1 never before expeneneed such a fbllness 
of grace. It seems as thooj^ my inunortal spirit could 
not reside in this tabernaele— as though I iitiU9t fly 
away to Christ Yet my life is a history of sins and 
merci^. Never before have I felt myself to be so 
guilty a sinner. I deserve to have a millstone fastened 
to my neck, and t^e anchored in the depths of hell.' 

*' Again, in the morning, after much pain and lan- 
guor during the night, he said, ' I am well, and cahn, 
and happy — it was a happy night— every few mo- 
ments my soul awaked to hold sweet communion with 
heaven. Let this clay perish, if G^od will — ^my soul is 
happy in Him, and all will redound to his glory, whe- 
ther I live or die.'' 

" Ne¥hB»ven, Nov. 33, 1887. 
"DearbroChirK » 

'' Yuor letter reached me in due time, and upon its 
contents I have been pondering. After considering 
my case, it seems to mis that I «<&%ht to remain hem 



JAMBS BRAINERD TATLOH. 379 

What little application I make is a necessary relaxa- 
tion to my mind ; and it is with this satisfying consi- 
deration, that it is in connection with my course. Be^ 
sides writing dissertations, I find that I can investi- 
gate the subjects in theology, and so keep along with 
the professor. Every thing on the part of my landlady 
is done to make me well, and kind friends evince their 
good feelings. Were I away, I think I should be un- 
happy, as I do not see that it would be duty to leave 
at present. 

" Rheumatism, or some other ism, yet troubles me 
m my sides, and disturbing my sleep, tends to debili- 
tate my system. Twice since I wrote, a little streak of 
blood has appeared when I expectorated. My throat 
and lungs feel in their usual vigor. 

'* My soul leans on God, and sweetly reposes in his 
will. With a weight of love to sister E. whose kind 
hand I remember as often extended to alleviate my 
pain ; I am affectionately yours, James." 

" New-Haven, Nov, 25, 1837. 

•• My dear Mrs. W — ^ — , 

" You saw me in anguish of body — ^you heard me 
tell how happy I was in God. As on earth I have 
thanked our heavenly Father for that cup, so in hea- 
ven the visitation will be more clearly expounded. You 
have heard of my late light affliction. It would be 
too long a story to tell of all the attendant blessings— 
but consolation has abounded, 

" The renewal of my old attack of rheumatism has 
been a little painful to the body ; but O the unspeak- 
able and full glory that has come along with it. The 
cap is sweet, sweet, sweet beyond exptesnostk. "^^ve:^^ 



380 MEMOIR OP 

me when I say it, I think it worth worlds — ^nay, worldi 
weigh nothing to it, for worlds without Christ Avouli 
be nothing worth. With the pain, I have Christ. 

*^ I think I can adopt the language of some one, I 
know not of whom : ' Though I am sometimes full ol 
pains, yet I am at all times full of patience. I often 
m )urn under a sense of my corruption, but never mur- 
mur under my affliction.' And why should I mur- 
mur? This would be to oppose the medicine that 
heals my soul. The Lord never afflicts us to hurt us, 
but to heal us. While in this wildemessj the Lord 
would have our souls a fruitful paradise. The hus- 
bandman knows his choice trees of righteousness, and 
when he comes with his pruning-knife, it is not to cut 
down the tree, but to lop off superfluous branches. 

'^ That this my poor cottage shakes, is a kind pre- 
monition of its fall. Let it fall, responds my inmost 
soul ; for who would not resign such an earthly taber- 
nacle, for a house not made with hands 7 Never did 
the thought of having a glorious body so overpower 
me as this evening. And think you, my dear sister 
I shall prize a glorious body the less for having had 
one so frail 7 More of this when we shall have heard 
the archangel's trump, assembled at Christ's right 
hand, and been made like him ; ' for we shall see him 
as he is.' 

" I am inclined to think — though I am in a strait be- 
twixt two, having a great desire to depart, yet longing 
to live to subserve the dear interests of our dearest 
Lord Jesus — I am inclined to think that Qod is not 
about now to take down this superstructure. He may 
be renewing the foundation. 

''I think 1 have \e«m%^ «iVy\x\^ ^V^wa ^{oryt'fi^ la 



JAMES BRAIMERD TAYLOR. 381 

mfinnities, rejoicing in tribulations, and possessing 
the soul in patience. Sweet lessons — lessons to be 
learned only in a certain school. In this school, an 
apt scholar, having a skillful teacher, may become a 
wonderful proficient. The wiser, the better we ought 
to be — then the holier, consequently the happier. 
Well, I am happy — I lean on my Beloved, and call 
him mine. 

" It has been moat siDeet to lie in the hands of God. 
I have longed to drink every drop of the cup that my 
Father puts into my hand. Not one pain less ', for He 
knows what is best, and that is best for me. 

" Could I tell you I would, but the blessing that I 
have received this day from God is above description. 
Kindest regards to Mr. W. From yourself and from 
him I should be glad to hear again and again. The 
death of Mr. S. I saw mentioned in the paper. Re- 
member me to the family, and fell them that God 
often removes outward mercies from us. in mercy 
tons. 

" Fraternally yours, in cor dearest Lord Jesus," 

«J. B. Taylor. 

" NeW'Hdvm, Dec. 29, 1827 

" Dear K. and E. 

" Ere this year closes, anticipating the commence- 
ment of the ensuing one, I wish you a happy, thrice 
happy new year. 

" To me, the year, nearly gone, has been fraught 
with good, good beyond the years before : for we call 
both that good which is good in itself, and that alsc 
which is the means of good. True, few have been 
the days and nights in which this ftaiV bo^^ W^ x^'^v 



S8S inutoi* OF 

ed quietly. Nevertheless, id this school of saiforuf 
I have be«i taught lessons which, whether I live m 
earth or in heaven, will make me wiser. 

'* When other refuges have failed, I have not faiM 
to find one soul-reviving. Never, perhaps, have I 
gained nearer access to Grod, held sweeter communioe 
with him, enjoyed a more glorious hope, anticipated 
a release from earth with calmer delight, than whea 
pain has heen exerting its undermining influence. 

*' It would he repeating the story, to tell you I have 
been happy. You will understand me, when you re- 
member those seasons of purest delight, in which 
your souls, with a child-like disposition, have iaUen 
into the hands of our heavenly ' Father, and sweetlf 
said, < Thy will be done.' " 

To his Parents. 

" This morning I arose, and felt the ill effects of an 
anodyne. But this was gain. More fit to sleep than 
to be awake, I threw myself on the bed. Having sung 
a Sabbath morning hymn« the last lines reached my 
heart — I will repeat them : 

' Then shall my soul wm life obtaki, 
'Nor Sabbath be enjoyed in vain.* 

*'Iwas athirst for 'new life.' and O that I eouM 
tell you :~God, viewed as the Holy One, melted, sub- 
dued, comforted, and happified my inmost powers. In- 
deed I felt that never before did I gain so much 'new 
hfe ' in so short a time. As you may suppose, I did not 
sleep. No, I was awake to commune still with God. 
Jesus seemed to say, *'VJ\\\'iWk'^^x«oSQ«wve mv cause 



JAMES BRAINERO TAYLUR. 383 

on earth, and preach my Gospel V With my soul lean- 
ing on him, I replied, *Lord, thou knowest.' Truly, 
my dear parents, as a herald ofine cross, I would run 
with delight. Be assured that the desire of preaching 
was never more ardent, for never more than of late 
have I felt my interests identified with the cause of 
our dear Lord Jesus. And while bars have seemingly 
been rising, and at least threatening to fence me out 
of the vineyard, I have had my love to my anticipated 
labor tried. Well, the prospect brightens ; and ere an- 
other year goes by, I hope you will receive me to your 
embraces, as one who officially bears the tidings of 
great joy. Should the Master order otherwise, I hope 
my willing feet would run at his command. Were I 
even to leave the earth, the thought is pleasant every 
way, save that I long to stay and win souls to Christ. 
Be it as it may, of this I feel persuaded, that God is 
doing me good, either to serve him the better here or 
at his right hand. Therefore be comforted. I rejoice 
in my being, in my endless being too. We shall live 
till our appointed time ; then with angels, and with 
saints in glory, renew the song of praise to Him that 
sitteth on the throne, and to the Lamb. 

"May you be comforted with the same comfort 
wherewith I am comforted. 

" Your affectionate and obliged son, 

"James.'^ 

The beginning of the year 1828 finds Mr. Taylor 
still at New-Haven, pursuing his favorite object ; and 
though in declining health, yet most ardently desirous 
to enter upon the great business of life, in winning 
souls to Christ, and making delLgktfviL ^.d^^Tk^^^ \sw 



spiritutlity'. The foUowing letters and extmcli iktfi 
impmwelf the woricings of a soul uncomnumlf im 
haed with diyine grace. 

'^As many hajipy returns of the season, to yon at 
our hearenly Father sees best. 

^ To tell yon that these are happf days to me, wooU 
only be testifying to the great goodnesp of Gkid, Codd 
I describe the view, whence, ms so mnteh self-^loathing, 
so nrach c<9itrition, brdkenness of heart, aad melting of 
soui-^oold I tdl the nearness Uiat (gained tbis erea- 
ing to God, in view of his paternal relatim to one of hit 
' little ones '«— nearness to Christ, as brother, friend— 
and the sweetness of the comfort that flowed into my 
soul, as my soul flowed down at the presence of Grod— 
I would speak it all forth. But it was ' unspeaksble 
and full of glory.' The name of Jesus was as ointment 
poured forth. A holy unction descended and rested 
upon me. There was eye-salve in it, hy which the vi- 
sions of a glorious heaven gathered brightness. Tru- 
ly, my brother, such visits are much to be prized ; and 
though our guests are unseen, they are not unloved 
nor unfelt. We hail the light of dieir approach, and 
run to catch the first glimpse, till the Sun of righteous- 
ness comes upon our souls with full splendor. How 
vivifying ! How soul-satisfying ! 'Tis now the world 
wranes and dwindles into its real insignifieanee. 

'* O that Zion would arise and shine in her beauti- 
fnl attire ! And why does she not? Not amrely be- 
cause her King is unwilling that she ahoaU he thos 
adorned. Till his loeka an waC 



JAMES BRAUHGRD TAYLOR. 3S5 

waited, and he is waiting still. I trust thai brother D. 
has long since clad himself with the white robe, and 
still wears his garments unspotted from the world. 

^^ Seasons in which we are thus refreshed, are renew- 
ing seasons. Both bodily and spiritual vigor come 
from the presence of the Lord. If it be so on earth, 
what will it be when we see the King in his beauty ? 
O, my brother, to me heaven never appeared more de- 
sirable than it has since I saw you ; yet with strong 
desire have I wept to stay and preach the Gospel of our 
blessed Lord Jesus, for I see there is a wide difference 
in entering heaven with and without company. Let 
him know, that he that converteth a sinner from the 
error of his ways, saveth a soul from death, and hideth 
a multitude of sins. * They that be wise shall shine 
as the sun, and they that turn many to righteousness, a8 
the stars for ever and ever.' How much better to find 
in heaven a band of converts sent thither through one's 
instrumentality, than to arrive alone. 

" The pain of body that I have undergone since I 
saw you has not been little ; yet none too much, for it 
has been sweet discipline. ' The cup that my Father 
hath given me, shall I not drink it ?' 

'* Through Qod's goodness I am much relieved, and 
only feel the inconvenience of debility. By and by 
we hope to wear glorious bodies. When the saints 
shall put them on, may we recognize each other as 
brands plucked out of the fire. 

" Fraternally yours, James B. T aylob." 

** Middle Haddam, Jan. S7, 1&3S, 
Dt^r Brother K — » 

" I hare been at home a short time. I &tvd \BL^iw^\i 



386 MEMOIB OP 

an invalid yet. But of ail lessons, those learned in 
the school of afiiiciion I deem the most salutary. 
Would one learn the art of being patient 1 How can 
he know it unless he be tried 1 

'' Years ago, I used to inquire, where are my triab ? 
They ha7e come. Some part, at least, of the bitter, 
bitiersweei cup, has been drunk. The rest is in our 
Father's hand. Is not this enough? Last night, pain 
— sweet pain, as I called it — had a happy effect on my 
soul. The thought of leaving the earth and ming- 
ling with the holy above, was joy within, which bodi- 
ly pain forbade me to utter — but I found my wonted 
resting-place, and calmly reposed on him whom my 
soul loveth, till I fell asleep. How sweet — how soul- 
refreshing, when the heart can say, ' Father, not my 
will, but thine be done.' May you be a hundred-fold 
comforted with the same consolation. 

"Yours truly, James." 

From Middle Haddam, whence the foregoing note 
was written, Mr. Taylor returned to New-Haven, but 
his health continuing to decline, he was soon sum- 
moned to New-York, to prepare for a tour, or a voyage 
to the southern states, with the hope — in his case, alas ! 
vain hope — of staying the ravages of disease, and re- 
covering that health which he so earnestly desired, 
that he might preach the Gospel. 

How he was exercised in view of the proposed ex- 
cursion may be learned from the following extracts of 
a letter written at Stamford, while on his way to New- 
York, in obedience to the call to lay aside for a sea- 
son his work of preparation, and seek the restoration 
of his health. 



JAMB8 BRAINERD TAYLOR. 

*" Stamford, Jan, 30, 1828. 



-DearW , 

" Say you, why on your way to New-York 1 It is 
not a project of my own ; but kind friends have issued 
the command J not of authority, but of love, and bid me 
pack up and be on my way : thus far I have complied. 

"My dear Brother — at first, my heart rather revolt- 
ed at the idea of going : but before I had finished the 
letter, I could not say aught why I should remain. 
Nay more, I felt that I should do violence to my own 
feelings, and the feelings of others, not to go. How 
different from what I felt two months ago. Then it 
seemed impossible to go away. You remember the 
reason. It was a burning desire to live and preach 
the Grospel ; and I wished to remain and prepare for it. 
Since then, however, that intense longing has subsid- 
ed, and given place to a calmness that has caused my 
soul sweetly to rest — not so solicitous to live and 
preach the Gospel, as that Christ, as Lord of the Vine- 
yard, should dispose of me as the execution of his 
plan requires. 

"Thus you see how sweetly I have been fitted to 
leave all : indeed I go as cheerfully as I would into 
the pulpit. I feel all that calmness and composure 
which result from a consciousness of doing the will of 
God. Therefore rejoice with me, my loving brother, 
and be happy in the thought that I am put aside for 
the present — Put aside ! I am disposed to think that 
this turning me aside is to turn greatly to my account. 
—To my account ! — I hope to Zion's account. 

" Who can say that my journey is not to survey 
fields of labor which otherwise would not a^iijeoit 
inviting ? Who can say that a \m\L \a n^x. x^ ^^^ \svj^^^ 



388 ,aaBii0n or 

oat of this change of eizeomstaneef not the lemit in- 
portant — nay, a tinvd in the ehain of my prepuatkxi, 
and one withoat which the chain would twist and 
hreak? 

^ May I not fail to make this a profitable tonr ! Pmy 
for me mow as you read, and ever, that I may, by erery 
overturning, be more and mor6 moulded into the image 
of our dear Lord Jesus. 

" I now go out, not knowing the result. I go, per- 
haps to recover my health : this ismy fnrtmary object 
I go, perhaps to die. Well; I have the sweet pros- 
pect of yet mingling with the holy in hflSTen. Neveri 
never have I had happier days than since I saw you. 
I verily believe I have be^n on Mount deary and 
spied out the Canaan that we love. 

'^ Yours, in thehest bonds. 

"Jas. B. Tatlob." 



CHAPTER VIII. 



VUUs at the Souik^Sickneta^Death — Condustn^ 

After some detention in New- York, Mr. Taylor set 
sail for Charleston on the 7th March, and arrived on 
the 15th, without any occurrence of note, but, as he 
thought, with evident mitigation of his disease. After 
sojourning some time at Charleston, and enjoying the 
cordial hospitalities of that warm-hearted peoplci he 
1 to Savannah in Qeoc^ia^ thence to Augusta, 



JAMBS BRAINBRD TAYLOR. 389 

to Columbia, to Fayetteville, Petersburg, Richmond, 
and so back to New- York. The kind attentions and 
expressions of interest which he received from many 
persons during this tour, were often spoken of by him 
in language of acknowledgment to them and grati- 
tude to Grod. From these several places he wrote 
numerous letters to his friends, filled chiefly with de- 
scriptions of places, and observations on men and man- 
ners, which prove, that, though in search of health as 
his primary object, he had a heart -still to mingle with 
the friends of Jesus, and to love his Master's image 
under whatever clime or color it might appear; that 
he felt for the interests of the Redeemer's kingdom, 
without regard to localities, and that he was a shrewd 
observer of mankind. 

From a few of these communications extracts will 
be given, as far as they exhibit the exercise of his faith 
and piety, and show the fatal progress of his disease, 
and the spirit with which he bore the waning of hope, 
as to recovery. 

' At Savannah Mr. Taylor was advised to make an 
excursion for a few days into the country ; and ac- 
cordingly, having received letters of introduction to a 
few of the planters in Liberty county, he found his 
way to the residence of a gentleman with whom he 
spent two days, and of whom he thus writes : " Mr. 
■ is a single man, of about my age, which, you 

know, to-morrow, (15th April,) will be 27. Though 
not a professor of religion, yet he takes a stand indi- 
cative of heartfelt piety. Every night he meets his 
negroes collectied for worship ; sings, reads, expounds 
the Bible, and prays. His sister, a lady of known 
piety, meets the little folks in ite SiS\«ntfy«i^ ^\A*\sfc- 

33* 



BtraeU and pnyt wkb tiMm: f»*a£ff0*«ortibf prm^ 
tices*^ — and for this reason we transfer the aoeoont of 
their eondiict to our pages. 

^' At Col. L.'8 I had a time of refreshing from the 
presence of the Lord : having retired fatigued and with 
some pain in my side, I thought on health : our sym- 
pathizing High Priest was nearto bless. The thought 
of him was halm to my spirit I was fully persuaded 
that if he spoke the word, his senrant should be healed. 
To lire and recover I saw to be in some respects de- 
sirable, yet, rather than carry about aiweZeM tenement, 
I felt it desirable to depart: yes, thou£^ I seemed to 
lore my friends more than ever, I felt that I oould give 
you all up, and die, eren among strangers. My soul 
experienced joys that elevated me ; and then I could 
so sweetly fall into the hands of God, and meltingly 
say, my Father — ^my Savior." 

" Augutta, AprU 18, 18Sa 
** My dear Brother, 

" The evening before I left Savannah for this place 
I dropped a letter into the post-office, saying, among 
other things, that I was about to set my face home- 
ward. We left Savannah on Thursday A. M. and 
reached thi« to-day. Mr. E.^s* horse preceded my 
fox, and thus we both came in my gig. With a little 
more practice, I think, ' upon a pinch,' I could demand 

ijjS per month as a stage-driver ; ^but I feel like 

any thing else than a single light thought. 

*' Were I to describe my feelings, I should repre* 
sent myself as pensive or disheartened. I do not com- 

• A feitow traveller for hsaUlmihotsiMvUhMr. T. fimaN. Y 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 381 

plain : of all men, I hare most reason to be thankfuL 
I would not complain — no, never. But, my dear bro- 
ther, 1 feel that I am not gaining much : the week or 
ten days past, the old pain has returned to my side. 
Whatsoever be the result, I hope in all things I shall 
be kept from sinning. Whether my days be few or 
many, nothing seems more abhorrent to my feelings 
than to be situated where I shall be a burden. But, to 
try me and others, this may be my lot. But desist-— > 
it is not good to borrow trouble. Yours affectionately, 

"Jambs." 

From Augusta Mr. Taylor wrote again, April 80^ 
when he says : 

" How pleasant to feed in green pastures while tra- 
veling through the wilderness. To-day the Good 
Shepherd hath given me a rich repast. My soul has 
gained strength from feeding on angels' food — if an- 
gels feast on the manifestations of God to them. 
Singing one of the songs of Zion, my heart began to 
melt, and sweetly flowed down into tencj/erness and 
love. To call God my Father, was sweet beyond ex- 
pression ; Christ, as my eider Brother, Friend, Shep- 
nerd, Lord — my all, captivated all my powers, and I 
cried with a broken heart — 

'Thou lovely source of true deUght, 
Whom I, unseen, adore> 
Unveil thy beauties to my sight, 
That I may love thee more.' 

" how soul-humbling ! how soul-elevating ! how 
full of consolation I to have the 1uami«%\»^)vyoA ^l*^^ 



892 MBBIOIR OP 

sus as they are not made to the world. Perhaps ne^ 
ver with more confidence could I ask for the Holy 
Spirit. Blessed anointings! with this Messing we 
climb the ' delectable mountains,' stand on Mount 
Clear,' and look away to the fair land. How fair and 
desirable it appeared to me this evening ! More desir- 
able than the land of my fathers ! O the prospect of 
meeting the holy, when I shall haye answered the 
end of my being in this world. My prospect bright- 
ens as Grod shows his beauties to my soul ; and I 
long for the time to arrive when I shall become a dis- 
embodied spirit. I wish to behold the glirry which 
Christ wishes his disciples to see. ' Father, I will 
that they whom thou hast given me be with me where 
I am, that they may behold my glory.' Much is com- 
prised in that word, glory. Well, it will not be long 
before the disclosure will be made. 

" Whenever I am so peculiarly blessed, then my 
longings are to preach the Gospel. There is an in- 
tensity of feeling that finds no expression hut in groans. 
Still I lie in the hands of God, and if I mistake not. 
acquiesce in his will ; and I feel fully persuaded that 
my protracted trials will issue in my good, whether I 
live or die. Through your prayers I may yet he re- 
stored and given to the church, to which, under God, 
long since and repeatedly I have surrendered myself. 

"24th. — It may disappoint you, as I have been dis- 
appointed ; but you would know my case fully. I had 
hoped that I should not have a return of bleeding. 
For two or three days previous to night before last, I 
had a stricture across my lungs, and they felt as though 
they were tied up. Then I had a turn of bleeding, 
pretty much as wVien «iX '^c^-'Vlvi««w, Va&i ui^ht 



JAMES BBAINERD TATLOIL 303 

there was another discharge of ahout the same amount| 
and this morning another. I feel no inconvenience 
from it, but am relieved. I have not room to say much 
of the kindness that is shown me. You would be 
grateful to witness the attentions that are paid to the 
stranger in his exilo* And I am happy. This morn- 
ing my spirit has been sweetly refreshed. Be not con- 
cerned about me. 

** Columbia, May 2, 1823. 
*' For a week, I think, before I left Augusta, and 
since, there has been no blood from my throat or 
lungs. After all, think not too much of my recovery; 
I do not, except that I wish to live to preach the Gos- 
peL O how I have longed to put in the sickle here ! 
Last Sunday evening a crowded house of young peo- 
pie waited to hear the truth. Think not that it injur- 
ed me ; for I was better after it : it seemed to untie my 
lungs. As I delivered my message, I longed to fol- 
low it up. But no ; whether I live or die, the Lord be 
magnified." 

From Columbia Mr. Taylor pursued his course 
northward, until reaching Louisburg, N. C. as a ChrU^ 
tian traveler^ he stopped to keep holy day, and thence 
sent the following interesting letter : 

''Jl^ySe, 1888L 
** My dear, demr Brother, 

^ Though worn out with the journey of the day, yon 
will allow me to pour a little from the fullness of my 
heart. I am in a snug harbor, with the prospect ot 
enjoying the approaching Sabbath, by keeping holy 
day here. I need the day both foi bod>i ^ii^xQ^'QA\\A 



■ ■• » 



renew my phyeieal itnngtfa (br Uie jonniey, md fa 
pat o& anew the umdr o£ rigfateoosBess. 

"My fonner letter* bear testiiiumy to repected aea- 
aons in which I bare been refreshed. Last ni^^ om 
occurred, and O how timely ! I wet my coach witb 
tears, sweet tears, from a broken, sabmlssiTe heart 
My dear brother, yon know what a MoHdhtde I have 
felt to preach the Qospel ; and bat for preparation for 
this, how willing I was to relinqoish all, upon year 
visit to New-HaTen." [This refers to his brothei^ 
desire that he shonld traTel for his health.] " O, it 
was a hwming of soal, that would take no denkL 
You know, from my testimony, how I yielded the de- 
cision into God's hands, to dispose of me as pleased 
him. In this I hare rested. Last night it seemed 
pretty clear to my mind what would be the result.- I 
looked not for the blessedness of standing upon the 
beautiful walls of Zion, as a watchman to sound the 
alarm. The evidence was, that the trumpet had fail- 
ed. The fact stares me in the face. If I attempt to 
converse, to sing, to pray aloud, the once — tuned in- 
strument is discordant : shortness of breath is tronble- 
some. If I attempt to walk up a hill, it excites the 
lungs so much that respiration is difficult ; and even 
throwing myself upon the bed produces breathing 
enough for one that has run a race. My lungs are ve- 
ry sensitive. Now all this was not the case when I 
left you, nor when I set out upon my journey from the 
south. A blessing came in connection with the hold 
which the ministry had upon my heart, and with the 
interrogatory. Will you give it up? Dear brotheri 
think my whole soul responded — and I hardly know 
how— ^ Yes, yea, thy w\\\ V*^ teaft\ viA \!fiAx« 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 395 

Staying upon God, and a solid, indescribable comfort 
within. Thus you see how one thing after another i% 
lopping off. And indeed, more than ever, I thought it 
became me to set my house in order; and I longed to 
live more like Christ, and to exhibit more of his cha« 
racter. The prospect was pleasant even of putting 
aside prospective labors and of entering into rest. If 
it should soon take place, will not my brother, my dear 
brother, whom I seem to love more than ever, give me 
up ? Yes, like a Christian , and so will others whom 
I love. As ever, yours, James." 

Early in the month of June Mr. Taylor arrived at 
his brother's in New-York, whence he sent a number 
of letters to his friends. Having previously announc- 
ed to his parents his arrival, on the 25th of June he 
wrote them as follo\^s : 

" New- York, June 25, 182a 
" I doubt not my beloved iriends on the kill would 
rather see my person than my letters. It is indeed 
great self-denial on my part not to gratify them. But 
as it is considered on the whole best for me to tarry 
here yet a little, I will again let you know of my 
affairs. 

" My letter written from Louisburg you have pro- 
bably seen. In that, I think it was, 1 mentioned the 
fact that I had relinquished the hope of preaching. 
That conquest was a crown. Last night I obtained 
another : ' Blessed is the man that endureth tempta- 
tion, (trial,) for when he is tried, he shall receive the 
crown of life.' The trial that assailed me was a pain 
in my left breast, which to me appeared to be a new 
indication of my mortality. It uvaa -w^Yciwafc^ VvCbi. 



306 MEMOIR OP 

joy^ I yielded sweet assent. My heart was melted i 
into tenderness, and my whole soul felt a preforenct, 
if it were Gtod's will, to depart. I desired to he f^ne. 
I longed to see my hearenly Father, whose matchless 
goodness had plucked me as a brand from the burning. 
I longed to be with Christ. To see him to whom 1 
am indebted for the much he has done for me. I long- 
ed for the society of angels and saints, and thought of 
some whom I should see among the glorified. 

'^ The goodness of God, as exhibited in my conver- 
sion, and the present comfort of soul in the midst of 
my protracted trials, was overwhelming. -Thus my 
dear, dear parents, see that the Lord leaveth me doU 
Surely he is with me ; and for his presence my pil- 
low is often wet with tears of joy. Should I recover, 
I shall look upon the varied dealings of God with me 
as happily preparatory to my future usefulness. 

" With love to you all, James." 

After remaining some weeks in New-York, for the 
sake chiefly of medical advice and attendance, Mr. 
Taylor repaired to his father's house, whence he wrote 
to his brother K several letters showing the flat- 
tering nature of his disease, and exhibiting something 
of his character. 

'*MiddU HaddttM, July 27, 18S8. 
*< My dear Brother, 

" Conversation engrosses but little of my time. My 

food IS light — digestion good. I ride more or less ca 

horseback or in my gig. During each day, spend 

some time in studying metaphysics, philosophy, and 

. theology. 



JAMES BRAINERO TAYLOR. 809 

" From the fact that I am able to do more, and 
with greater facility, I persuade myself that I gather 
strength : I think I cough less. Blisters repeatedly ap- 
plied have kept me not a little sore. However, it is 
good philosophy to endure a smaller, to root out a 
greater evil. Yesterday I felt sick of being sick, not 
so much on my own account, as on account of those 
80 benevolently affectioned towards me. I hope it did 
not rise to a complaint of Providence. But the idea 
of so much and continued expenditure of the time, and 
money, and feelings of others on my behalf, and with 
so little, if any amendment, sadly affected me. The 
proof, too, that I have of its all flowing from a fullness 
of overflowing kindness on their part, only tended to 
make me feel more ; for a soul that feels undeserving 
and dependent, cannot but appreciate such favors, 
and is glad to unburden itself by expressing a corres- 
ponding gratitude. 

" This morning I felt strong enough to preach. I 
am encouraged, and live with the hope of one day tri- 
umphing over debility and disease, and standing forth 
a well man, to subserve the cause of Gk>d on earth. 
The hill looks well, and is improving. The trees grow 
finely. Are you and yours coming up? We shall be 
glad to see you, and will do all we can to make you 
happy. Love to E. and the children. 

"Yours, as ever, James B. Taylor." 

<' Middle Baddam, Aug. 4, 1838. 
** Dear Brother, 

" 1 think myself gaining in strength and fieili^ thoogh 

little of either ; enough, however, for encouragement. 

I have been reviewing my course, ao tti^t. \ wsl^^^^> 

3^ i,Ykt«s[Vs«. 



396 MEMOIR OP 

nigh prepared to be examined for license. Two of fny 
class were examined and licensed week before last. 
The Association meets again on the last Tuesday of 
this month to license the remainder. This being om 
thing that I wish to get out of the way, and being pre- 
pared for it, I have thought it best to be licensed also. 
My sermon I wrote, for the most part, when at the 
South. I presume your sentiments on this point will 
accord with mine. Among other reasons, these have 
weighed somewhat on my mind, amid the uncertaintjr 
of my recovery so as to be able to preach. 

'* Should I be able to perform the duties of a naval 
chaplain, and a sea voyage be recommended, I should 
gladly enter such a sphere of labor for the sake of 
doing good and defraying expenses. Sboold I become a 
resident of a West India island, as has been suggested, 
if found to agree with my constitution, I had better go 
commissioned to preach than otherwise. Should 1 go 
South to spend the winter, it would not be a disadvan- 
tage to go as a preacher. Should I remain at home, 
a burden would be off my mind. So far, then, as I 
can see, I cannot but conclude that it is my duty to be 
examined and licensed with my class. 

"Yours tiuly, J. B. Taylor." 

" MiddU Haddam, Sept. 9, 1823. 
'•Duar Brother K , 

" I am here at anchor ; no head wind but blows some 
one good. I hope to ride out the storm patiently^ and 
especially amidst so many comforts. Often the sky, 
long lowering, clears away ; and hope, as if on wings, 
places me where I have longed to be, m the vineyard, 
/read| the other da^t 



k. 



)AME9 BRAINERD TAYLOR. 399 



-* The youth, 



* Who in the glowing mom of vigoroas li^e, 

* High reaching after great religious deeds. 

* Was suddenly cut ofi^ with all his hopes 

* In sunny bloom, and unaccomplished left 
' His withered aims — saw everlasting days 

* Before him dawning rite, in which to achieve 

* All glorious things.' 

" As I read I wept. O, my dear brother, it is hard 
work, bat it is good work. But I am gaining, and 
ought to be thankful. A course of suffering may be 
the necessary means to prepare for a sphere of high 
action either in this or in the other world. Think not 
that I complain : no, I think I would not for the uni- 
verse take my course into my own hands. Why not 
give a call on the Hill ? We all should be so glad 
to see you. 

"Your much obliged, J. B. Taylor." 

In accordance with Mr. Taylor's views on the sub- 
ject of being licensed, he attended the Middlesex Con- 
sociation, which met in East Haddam, Oct. 8, 1828 ; 
read his trial sermon, on the text, John, 12 : 26, '* If 
any man serve me, him will my Father honor," — WRS 
examined with respect to his own religious experi- 
ence, his knowledge of Christian theology, and his 
ability to teach and defend the truths of the Gospel — 
all which were approved, and he was licensed to 
preach as a candidate for the Gospel ministry. 

But his health being unequal to the labor of execut- 
mg this long-desired commission, it was resolved by 
Mr. Taylor's friends, but with his own hearty concur- 
rence, tnat he should spend the winter at the Ucion 
Theological Seminary in Prince Ed^w^<io\wvv^0^'>^- 



400 MSMon or 

ginia, in the family of the Rer. John Holt Rice, D. D. ,, 
then Professor of Christian Theology in that Institu- 
tion. To this retreat Mr. Taylor was invited by the ^ 
affectionate kindness of Dr. Rice, and hy the mild and 
healthful climate of that part of Virginia. Before set- 
ting out on this journey, he addressed letters to seve- 
ral of his friends, from which some extracts will now 
be given. 

To his friend L. P. he commenced a letter at Mid- 
dle Haddam on the 1st of October, and concluded it 
in New- York, after leaving his father's house for the 
last time. 

<* Mid^ Haddam, Oct 1, 1828. 
** My miieh loved IHend, 

" You will be glad to hear from me, though stiU ' in 
bonds.' The chain that bound me when at your house 
in June, though not so heavy, still holds me. Whe- 
ther I shall burst it ere I become a disembodied spirit 
is known only to Him who has thus far upheld my 
goings. This is to let you know that I consider my- 
self convalescent, though about my lungs there are in- 
dications no way flattering. Also, that I purpose to 
leave my paternal roof for another of my loved homes 
in New-York. Should circumstances permit, I may 
visit New-Jersey. I do not make too much of seeing 
you, for I may be disappointed ; yet how gladly would 
we be comforters one of another. 

" The grave does not seem so near as it did when 
you saw me so prostrated ; but still I may be standing 
on its brink." 

**JVew-Yark, Oct. 31, 

"The ahove, as you perceive^ I wrote nearly a 
mon th since. H*\tV\et \ Vv«iv ^ twa^ Vi ^cJY»saVwQx^v«^ 



JAMBB BRAINEBD TAYLOR. 401 

days more. On Monday I expect to set sail, net to 
your dwelling, but to a haven appointed by friends and 
physicians. I set sail for Petersburg, Virginia ; thence 
I go to Prince Edward county to winter, unless in 
mercy I should be taken to a clime more desirable. 

" I have detained this with the hope that in person 
I should see you. For this purpose I had designed to 
pass through Princeton and Lawrenceville. But as 
my health does not warrant the fatigues of journey ing, 
and the excitement of seeing dear friends, I am de- 
nied the pleasure. It is self-denial. Perad venture I 
may retuia in the spring, better able to enjoy the so- 
ciety of those I love. If not, the land of dear delights 
is before me. Do you ask how I am in my protracted 
afflictions ? The Lord doeth all things well. Sweet 
thoughts of Jesus melt my soul. Communion with 
heaven is soul-elevating and soul-transforming. In a 
word, I am a happy, though a sick and dying man. 
The Lord most gently and mercifully hands me down 
the hill of life, while the descent seems very short. 
O, It will be sweet to take the last step, and walk in- 
to eternity. To me the grave wears choice attire- 
Paradise more choice. I wish, and often with long- 
ing, to see Jesus as he is, to mingle with the holy 
above-^to sing the song of the shining ones. O think 
not that I am gloomy or depressed ; far, far, very far 
from it. Think of me as visited from above, and roll- 
ed along in a chariot all paved with love — think of 
me as one who loves you — think of me and pray for 
lae as one feeble, shattered, tottering, and almost fall- 
ing — ^falling into the arms of our Beloved. 
^If my last — my most affectionate adieu, 

^^ James B, Tayuc^^." 
34^ 



408 MBMOIB 

Refertnee has already be«n made to a fragment of 
a diary kept for a short time daring the latter part of 
this year. From this record we shall now present t 
few extracts : 

" Oct. 9, P. M. — Left my paternal roof on my way 
to a southern clime. Our tears flowed at the soaod 
farewell, — dear, kind, affectionate kindred. 

'' 10th. — Reached New-Haven, and one of my lored 
homes — again enjoyed the social and friendly inter- 
course of kindred spirits. Our christian communion 
was douhly sweet. I enjoyed refreshings — especially in 
Sunday eyening exercises, in which all were melted. 

'* 13th. — Left New-Haven, and again met those 1 
love in New- York, again occupied a loved habitation, 
and again received the kind offices and sympathies of 
dear K. and E. Met Mrs. Palmer and Mary, who 
embark to-morrow for Charleston : they urge me to 
accompany them. I lie moored, and wait with sweet 
patience the decision of physicians and friends. May 
God direct. 

^^ Last night, though restless and wakeful, I was 
greatly blessed. My enjoyment of God, in the night sea- 
son, filled me with sweet peace and strong confidence. I 
think I know and have felt for a season past, especial- 
ly last night, the ' strait ' in which Paul was. I wa- 
tered my pillow with sweet tears — I longed to fly 
away to Jesus — I longed to stay and labor in his cause* 
I can neither say let me die, nor let me live. My heart 
cries out for Grod to lead and dispose of my all. I am 
in his hands, and he will guide me even unto death. 

^ 18th. — I am now waiting the arrival of medical 



JAMBS BnAlNERD TAYLOR. 403 

men, to examine and pronounce upon my case. Should 
they say that I am not in a confirmed consumption, 
or at least on the confines of it, I shall he disappointed. 

"Yesterday, P. M. and erening, I enjoyed sweet 
meltings of soul in view of the many mercies sur« 
rounding me. Surely, if on my way to an early grave, 
T am going down most comfortably— my dear friends 
load me with benefits. 

" It is sweet to look beyond time. I think I must 
regard my laboring days as gone by, and perhaps 1 
shall soon enter upon my long resting day, 

" It has made my heart ache to think that I should 
be put aside so soon, but grace has proved sufiicient : 
I am sweetly patient. The Father smiles upon his 
child. A sympathizing Jesus is with me. Comfort 
and joy from the Holy Ghost pervade my soul. 

" Retrospectively, it appears that Ood has designed 
to perfect me through aufferinga — pain of body and 
disappointment as to the ministry. Wel^ I am a wit- 
ness to the wise dealings of the wise One» God knows 
what is best, and that is best for me. He hath led me, 
as he leads one to holiness, to happiness, to heaven. 
Amen. 

" 19th.-*The physicians came. The result of their 
examination was unexpected. So £u as they could 
discover, they thought me sound, except aa aflRsctioa 
of the mucous membrane, which they woald endeavor 
to relieve. So it seems I may yet recovev and live to 
preach the Gk)spel ; still uncertainty hangs over the 
restoration of my debilitated and overdone system. 

" From the examination it was discovered that the 
cause of my painful days and nights, for two years and 
more, was a spinal affection : which disease commenc- 



404 MEMOIR OF 

ed, continued, and I hope teiminated, without being 
found out hefore. 

"2Sth.— Yesterday had sweet thoughts of Jesus. 
The thought of becoming a pure spirit refreshed my 

soul. 

" Last night, after I had retired, a precious love to- 
ken was handed down to the unworthiest. The Lord 
remembereth that I am but dust: I am of a feeble 
frame. Often I find it a laborious task to repeat even 
the four lines I learned in my earliest infancy — < Now 
I lay me down to sleep,' &c. Greatly fatiguing to 
repeat the Lord's prayer. How mercifully the Lord 
accommodates himself to this weakness. The other 
night I had but just lain down and thought of the 
sweet pleasures which religion affords, when my soul 
was filled with peace ; so, at times during the day, in 
my lonely hours as I sit and while away the time, 
unable to study or read. Last night I was refreshed 
with an unction from the Holy One. 

" I thought of meeting one who asked me whether I 
had any solicitude now to preach the Gospel. My an- 
swer was, no. I added, the days of my solicitude are 
gone by. Then I remembered seasons of anxiety, 
deep, nay, burning anxiety, that I had had to do the 
work of a minister of Jesus Christ. Mine eyes ran 
down with tears, with the sweet consciousness of an 
honest appeal to God, who had ever marked out my 
way. The seasons have not been few in which I have 
groaned for the work, and for due preparation for it. 
The thought of relinquishing this object was plea- 
sing, if so the will of God be. Nay, I was rather desi- 
rous of leaving all behind and going to Jesus. I think 
I see enough worth dying for. 



JAMES BRAIMBRD TAYLOR. 405 

" 29th. — Of the seven sons of my father's house, I 
am apparently farthest on my joamey to the grave. 
To-day I wept at the thought of soon leaving my dear 
friends far behind. I shall leave ihem more an inva- 
lid than when I*went south last spring — it grieves me 
not to think of bidding them adieu, even if it prove a 
last farewell. I love them now — when glorified, how 
much more. Peace and heaven's choicest blessings 
attend them. It is sweet to think of falling into the 
hands of Jesus. It is delightful to confide in God as a 
Father who has suited his dealings to the frailties of 
his little one — I wept in his presence as I remember- 
ed my disobedience. How great his grace and mercy ! 
There is forgiveness with Gk>d. It was delightfully 
pleasant to contemplate the Holy Spirit as Comforter ; 
I longed to see of the things of Christ yet more and 
more brightly. Roll on, ye wheels of time, and bring 
me, a welcomed saint, to the dwelling-place of Jesus, 
my best beloved." 

On the 4th November Mr. Taylor, as announced in 
his letters, embarked for Petersburg, (Virginia,) on 
his way to Prince Edward, and arrived on the 9th. 
Whence, on the 15th, he wrote to his brother at New- 
Haven : 



"DearF- 



"" Having entered on the study of your profession, 
make conscience of studying to approve yourself unto 
God, To please God — to be blessed and made a 
blessing, thus to live and be happy— should be our 
first, constant, and last aim. If I sought for one thin^ 



406 MEMom or 

more than another in my preparatory course, aead^ 
mical, collegiate, and theological, it was to be signallf 
ANoiNTEn of Godj for the great, the good, the most desi- 
rable, the highest work of man. I am happy in this con- 
sciousness. With little probability of ever doing this 
work, I am greatly glad that I sought this holy unc- 
tion and I can testify that I found it. All along I was 
anointed ; and I most affectionately and urgently pre- 
sent this as pre-eminent in importance. All else will 
go on well enough — rather let all else suffer, than 
forego the refreshings of the Holy Ghost. 

" It is very pleasant for me to think that God can 
glorify himself and let me be an invalid. My confi 
dence in God to endow me great, has much increas- 
ed of late. Think of me then, not as desponding 
under his debarring me from the vineyard, but as quite 
contented and happy — as rather willing to be sick, be- 
lieving it to be his will. Think of me as handed down 
very kindly, tenderly, and mercifully, though rapidly, 
on my way to the grave. Heaven appears very desi- 
rable. 

" Ever truly and affectionately, James.'' 

The beginning of 1829 finds Mr. Taylor located :n 
his last home on earth. Having spent a few days in 
Petersburg and Richmond, enjoying the hospitalities 
of Christian friends, whose privilege it was to enter- 
tain this devoted disciple, he proceeded to his destined 
resting-place in the Union Theological Seminary, 
whither Dr. Rice had invited him to come and spen^ 
the winter. 

After his arrival in Virginia, Mr. Taylor wrott 



JAJA£8 BRAINERD TATLCR. 407 

several letters, which speak of places and their aspect ; 
of Christian friends and their kindness; and of his 
gratitude to God and to them ; of the goodness of God, 
and of his own love and confidence, and acquiescence 
in the divine will ; and of the alternations of hope 
and despondency, as he felt better or worse under the 
changes incident to one who is contending with the 
most flattering and fatal disease. But though borne 
down with his malady, and often oppressed with a 
sense of weakness almost intolerable, he lost no op- 
portunity of endeavoring to relieve the anxiety of hia 
relatives and friends, and of expressing his strong 
affection for them. Nor did he cease to feel, and by 
all the means in his power to labor for that cause which 
to him was dearer than life. As an evidence of the 
mterest he continued to feel in the advancement of 
Christ's kingdom, and as an appeal which may reach 
some heart, and yet bring a faithful laborer into the 
service of the church, we give the following extract of 
a letter written 4th January, 1829. 

m 

'^ Unable as I am to labor, and seeing the great har- 
rest-fieid and the fewness of the laborers, I am so 
interested that I cannot but urge men to go into the 
iharvest. I know nojt what may be your decision now 
as to this object ; but chese thoughts suggest them- 
selves to me : Is it not in the power of my friend to 
do much in advancing the kingdom of Jesus Christ, 
i»y preaching the Gospel? Would not his father, 
£rom a consideration of the fewness of ministers, and 
the great and pressing call for them, say, Go, my 
son, and be a minister of Jesus Christ. I will con- 
sent to deny myself, for the sake of Rvca. ^Va VsSv 



4m 

lietfren to die on' the crost.^ -Hdiir can ycv-tliliiit ot 
dragging out your Uh in that Mchidad spot eia « §ma, 
when yo9 may go^-^t into the ^ImM antt be so mad 
more U9^mL Yoa wte yofmg'-^iicmie toio old to taat- 
mence. la a few yearayoii may be prepasvd, anA diea 
yoa maif lire maily yean to preaich th^ lakispeL Ai 
to means for your Mppciti yo^ need not be. troubled : 
only make ap yoinr miad^ and fhe'way ^1! be opened. 
^ I present this-^lgect to yea tofAMk of. Think 
of it alone. €k> oyer the ground again -and again, and 
see if it be not ifimr daif to enter upon this irorir. 
Write to me about it Tell me the diflftcahles, if then 
be any, in the way. I shall be glad to hear of year 
spiritual weUare." 

To a much esteemed Christian brother Mr. Taylor 
wrote on the 15th January, 1829. 

*' C^fttim Tked, Stm» Priiue Edward^ Fc 
•* Dear Brother B— • 

" Your love-letter of the 1st inst reached me a few 
days since. I was glad to break its- seal, and find it 
was from a friend and brother beloved. 

^' It has become so much of a task for me to write, 
that I must now put off my correspondents with a few 
lines only. 

*^ By the letters I have written, you have beard of 
my condition. The peace of God, which passeth all 
understanding, keeps my heart, through Christ Jeeos. 
Since I saw you I have not been a stranger to sweet 
anointmgs, whose fruit is lasting peaee. On my be* 
^ " will rejoice. 



JAM£8 BRAINERD TAYLOR. 409 

^ 1 am glad of your joy and peace in believing. May 
they increase more and more. 

** The Seminary is flourishing. Much has already 
been done by it for the good of this land. Very much 
more remains to be done. 

'* My debility will be my excuse for brevity. I shall 
be glad to hear from you again and again. 

" Yours truly, James B. Taylor.'' 

On the same date he wrote to his brother K. 

** In my absence heretofore, as now, I have often 
thought myself, the happiest of men. So be comfort- 
ed, my dear brother, and ever think of me as taken up 
by our heavenly Father, as a little one, and continu- 
ally and greatly blessed. On Saturday, my soul was 
melted under a sense of our heavenly Father's pre- 
sence. Sitting alone my uplifted desire was uttered — 
Father, give me the Holy Spirit. An unction from 
rhe Holy One greatly refreshed my soul. I had been 
saying) Lord, how long ? in reference to my protracted 
trials. My whole soul yielded, and said, Bven so 
long as the Lord will ; but thou wilt give me thy Spi- 
rit. I hardly know when my confidence gathered 
strength so fast in God, that he would make me hap- 
py. With unusual sweetness I adopted the language 
of Jesus, * Father, glorify thyself.' O, I felt happy 
that he would be glorified. My confidence in the gift 
of the Holy Ghost was greatly strengthened. 

" After such anointings the soul rests in calm, sweet, 
aeavenly peace. 

' Not a wave of trouble rolls 
* Across my peaceAil breast. 

•* With increased affection. ^ miw.-^^ 

35 4.^.'Y«!^'«« 



410 MEMOIR OP 

To another brother Mr. Taylor wrote on the 20th s 

** Those letters that I have written cost roe labor, ai 
every effort does. And surely I know I would not 
write again but to gratify my friends. Though di- 
rected to one, they were meant to give information ta 
all. I am sorry that my brother thinks me depressed, 
when it is not so : far from it ; peace rules in my heart; 
sweet refreshings come from above, and happify me 
from time to time. Think of me then as happy, 
very happy." 

To another friend, on the 35th : 

" I hope you are all well. I love to think of my 
friends as enjoying health; it gives me high plea- 
sure ; yet higher to know that they are abiding in 
Christ, and walking as he walked. 

" You have often heard my testimony to the rich 
grace of God. It nov/ abounds unto me. His visits 
of love are followed with sweet peace. This helps 
me much to bear my weakness, which I find harder 
work than formerly. 

' Think of me as one blessed of God, and happy, 
though an invalid. 

" I have done no preaching, nor shall I do any but 
parlor preaching. 

" Let me be refreshed by a letter from you. Through 
letters I now obtain almost all my foreign pleasure. 

"This is written out of much weakness. And I 
should treat you as I should my other friends — not 
write a line but to gratify you, for it is a great physi- 
cal task. Glad am I always at the last word. 

" Farewell) aa evw, ^o\ii»^ Jua. B. Taylob.* 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 411 

To his brother K. he wrote, Feb. 11: 

" For some time past I have been gradually grow- 
ing feeble. J am much more 90 than on my arriyal. 
For a few days I seemed to have a coldness approxi- 
mating to chill, succeeded by fever. These changes 
enfeebled me much. My appetite has failed consider- 
ably. Though furnished with many varieties, I relish 
little. I am glad at every day's exit : and though 
weaker and more helpless,* I hope to be returned to 
you with gladness, in much patience and full submis- 
sion to the will of our heavenly Father. 

" I am wearied already in this little doing. Affec- 
tionately yours, " James." 

'^ By my amanuensis, Mrs. R. I thought to tell you 
at greater length ; but, like all glorious manifestations 
of God to the soul, this beggars description. How- 
ever, let me say, that to-day I have had sweet thoughts 
of going to another world. Gladly, while alone and 
resting in my easy-chair, would I have bade earth fare- 
well, and winged my way to the paradise of Grod. 
The Lord said. Nay. I yet stay, and would patiently 
wait until my change come. I find it easier to dictate 
than to write with mine own hand. 

"James." 

We have now given to our readers the last letter 
which Mr. Taylor was able to write with his own 
hand. Nor have we any thing dictated by himself to 
his friends, with the exception of two short epistles, 
from which we present a few brief extracts : 

^The ground of that hope was doubtless the opinioii of ld« 
pbysiciansi that with care he might reco^et. 



412 MB»OIR OP 

** Utdim Theo. Sem., FYb. 19, ISflBi. 

** Dear brother K. 

'< Since my letter, which was a week ago, I hare 
continued to fail. My nights are restless^-congfa in- 
creased — external things losing their interest — faith 
gathers strength. 

" I have often thought, though so weak, if the wea- 
ther were suitable^ of setting out for the north to spend 
my last days among the friends I love. It has occur- 
red to me as it never did before, that though grievous, 
It gives parents pleasure to have their children, when 
dying, with them. Brothers, and sisters too, wouM 
rather than otherwise stand round the dying bed ol 
one of their number. I should love to add all the com- 
fort in my power to those who have so often comfort- 
ed me. 

" To me it is apparent I shall not survive the 
coming few months ; for, on the whole, my case it 
more critical than it ever has been before. The phy- 
sicians begin to deal in may he^9, I have told you the 
simple story of my feelings, that you may judge whe- 
ther it be best that I attempt to come to you. 

"20lh. — This day I have been more feeble than yes- 
terday, and the thought has naturally arisen, that this 
room may prove the place of my exit to another world. 
Believe that I am mercifully and most kindly handed 
along down the hill of life, and 1 Iiope the last step 
will be to the glory of God. 

" Unless I should gain some strength, this will be 
the last letter that I shall ever dictate. But you will 
hear of me through my kind friends, who are ever rea- 
dy to be my helpers. 

" With increased ^ttecVvQW ^xi^ \w^ v:v '^qwl all^ 



't- JAMES BRAINEBD TAYLOR. 413 

<* Union Thio. Sem. March 3, 1829. 
** Dear ChriMtiau Friend, 

" On my sick, and probably my dying bed, I fre- 
quently think of you. Your letter, which gave me 
pleasure, came to hand in due time : answering it, in- 
stead of employing my own hand, I am under the ne« 
i cessity of writing by the hand of another. 
I " For weeks past I have been sinking rapidly — I am 
now almost helpless and worn out, and unless there 
be a change soon, this 'mud-wall'd cottage' will pre- 
sently fall to the ground. I mention this to show dear 

brother D , that if he e\rer see me in the flesh, it 

must be very soon. 

" One of my brothers is on the way to me, to be a 
comfort with my other friends, in these days of de- 
cline. You may rejoice with me, in that I rejoice in 
the Lord always. The prospect of changing worlds 
is pleasant. The home of the Holy is inviting. 
" Farewell. With much love, 

" J. B. Taylor." 

The last piece of writing which Mr. Taylor left in 
his own hand, purports to be his will, and bears date 
the 1st March, 1829, from which we extract the fol- 
lowing sentence : 

" On my bed of sickness, Prince Edward. Symp- 
toms of disease all tending to announce my departure. 
1 wish to say now that I am peaceful. The prospect 
of changing worlds is pleasant.'' 

Among the numerous letters, expressing the grati- 
tude of those who had been blessed throu^k hU Iv 

35* 



414 HEMOlff OF 

bors, and the love and sympathy of Christian friendi, 
there is one from the late Rev. Matthias Bruen, pas- 
tor of the Presbyterian church in Bleecker-street, New- 
York, which breathes a spirit so sweet, that the reader 
cannot &il to be pleased with its insertion. 

" New York, March 24» 1829. 

'^ The picture of you, my dear brother, has been vi- 
vidly present to the little company of your friends here, 
and we have thought of ourselves lingering like you 
on the threshold of eternity. Ah ! it is all the thresh- 
old of eternity — and to believers it is even now eter- 
nal life. This is the record, that Grod hath given to us 
eternal life ; and this life is in his Son. He lihat be- 
iieveth the Son hath life. 

<< We have endeavored to pray for you. You have 
some tender-hearted friends in our little church be- 
sides your dear relations, and are to them^ while you 
breathe here, an object of ceaseless sympathy, aod 
while they breathe, of hope and love. 

'^ While I have been standing where you once stood, 
to pray and preach to my little charge, your image has 
been before my mind, and I thank God and take coa** 
rage for the support you have as yet had ; for your car 
lamities are nearly overpast, while ours are yet to be- 
gin. May the chief Shepherd, who gave his life for 
yours, fill you even now with joy unspeakable; 

" In this season of calamity to us, I know not how 
to write to you, who are so soon perhaps to know the 
certainty of the things in which the Spirit of Christ 
has instructed you. You have a holy anointing for all 
that you are to accomplish. If L were near enough, I 
/ should rather sit ax Yo\iT fe«l mndhear^ or only^ look 



JUIE8 BRAllf ERD TAYLOR. 41$ 

OB. I cannot say a word to you — rather, dear brother, 
I would ask a parting prayer for me. I know that the 
thought of our lore is pleasant to you among earthly 
things, if the bright view of the Redeemer does not 
bedim all that is created. I shall always cherish the 
feeling of love to you, knowing that it will better pre- 
' pare me to finish my work, and to meet the Son of 
Man, idAo hath power on earth to forgive nna. Here 
is our consolation — sins like scarlet and crimson may 
be forgiven — even we may walk in white ! 

" Until my hope of your surviving this severe dis- 
pensation is absolutely destroyed by the arrival of your 
great change, I look for something encouraging, as 
your days are prolonged ; but we hope faintly. Into 
the care of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ we 
cheerfully commit you. He loves you more than we 
can. 1 that I could commit myself to him with 
like ardor of confidence, that neither life nor death 
shall separate from his love. 

" If you care to spend a moment's thought about any 
thing in the world, believe that a few persons herej aa 
well as elsewhere, love you with a peculiar and lively 
affection, who would gladly kneel beside your bed and 
endeavor to alleviate your bodily sufferings, and who 
\ sympathize with the other bosoms which have yielded 
you such sweet repose in Virginia. Shall we not love 
even our Savior more, that so many are created 
anew in his image to love one'another ? May we live 
to love one another where they never die any more. 

''With a faithful affection, and » remembrance of 
yon. never to cease, your vnworthy brother in the hope 
oftheQospeli 



416 MBMOIR OP 

As the reader has already anticipated, Mr. Tayloi 
gradually, and from this time rapidly declined, onti] 
his feeble body failed, and he went peacefully to his 
rest. On the 29th of March, 1829, in the 28th year ol 
his age, at half past six o'clock, on the evening of the 
holy Sabbath, he left the world in full assurance of o 
blessed immortality. But we cannot give a better ac- 
count of the closing scene, than in the language of 
those whose privilege it was to see how this good 
man died. 

" We have just witnessed the departure of a Chris> 
tian, of an eminent Christian, from this world of trial 
to that of everlasting rest — the Sabbath which in eter- 
nal in the heavens. 

" For a considerable time during his sickness, his 
debility was so great that he required unremitted at- 
tention day and night; yet they to whose lot it fell to 
nurse him in his last hours, so far from being wearied 
out by the labor, considered it a privilege to be near 
him. And their testimony is, that his conversation 
gave them more enlarged ideas than they ever had he- 
fore of Christian experience, and a more distinct con- 
ception of the power and preciousness of religious truth. 

" From the time he came among us to the last mo- 
ment of his life, his faith did not fail, nor even falter, 
nor did a cloud intercept his view of heaven. It would 
require a volume to record his various expressions of 
love, joy, and triumph — and all the same, whether he 
had hopes of recovery, or felt that he soon must die. 
The full exercise of reason was granted to him until 
the last. And when death came, although as fully 
" ''ibie of it as an^ "wVio uVX^Tx^^^ViKai^'^^t.VvU s^jirit 



JAUES BRAINEBD TAYLOR. 417 

was as calm as a ' summer evening,' and he remarked 
that he ^ had endeavored to live in such a way, that 
when he came to die, he should have nothing to do 
but to die.' About Aye minutes before his death he 
said : ' Farewell to you all, and farewell to this eartn.' 
Then, after a short time, addressing a beloved fnend 
who was supporting him, he said with great emphasis: 
^ Strive ! strive P His friend asked him, ' Strive to do 
what V ' To enter into the kingdom of heaven? These 
were his last words. His ruling passion was strong 
in death : to the very last moment he wished to preach 
the Gospel. After uttering this solemn exhortation, he 
drew a long breath — another and another — and then, 
without a struggle or a groan, his breast gradually 
sunk, and he gently fell asleep in Jesus ; and took an 
upward flight ' if ever soul ascended.' " 

Reader, may we die the death of the righteous, and 
may our last end' be like his. Do you reply. Amen ? 
Then let us strive — strive to enter into the kingdom 
of heaven; '^ for many, I say unto you, shall seek to 
enter in, and shall not be able." 

It may gratify the reader to see the letters which 
give a history of the closing scene. To these shall be 
added extracts from several communications to those 
who collected the materials of which this little work 
is composed. In these communications there is suf- 
ficient proof that the religious public is indebted for 
this compilation, not so much to the partiality of ad- 
miring relations, as to a just estimate of Mr. Taylor's 
christian character, and to a desire to do good, and to 
magnify the grace of God. 



418 MEMOIR OP 

' The first letter is from Dr. John Holt Rice to Ae 
eldest brother of the subject of this memoir. 

** Union Seminaiy^ March 29, 1889. 
*< JIfy beloved Friend and Brother H ■ » 

" It deFolves on me to perform a mournful ofiSce. 1 
have a brother whom I educated for the ministry, and 
I feel towards him as I do not towards any other hu- 
man being, a sort of mingling of parental and fraternal 
affection ; and I know you will feel, when I tell yoa 
that dear James is gone. 

" His sufferings for some time past have been very 
severe — not so much from pain as from excessive de- 
bility ; this was so great, that, as you may have seen 
from my former communications, the wonder was he 
did not die sooner. 

" Apart from natural feelings of sorrow for the loss 
of one so beloved, and grief that the church should be 
bereaved of so precious a young minister, there is no- 
thing in the case of your dear brother but cause of joy 
and thanksgiving. During his whole sickness, and 
amidst all the changes produced by disease in his spi- 
rits, he never had the shadow of a doubt in regard to 
his acceptance ; his faith never failed, nor did his love 
grow cold. In the midst of all his sickness the adversa- 
ry was most mercifully restrained, and he enjoyed 
the presence of his redeeming Lord. His affectionate 
heart, too, retained all its kindness, and he enjoyed to 
the last the sympathetic attentions of those who mi- 
nistered to his wants. Dear man ! he won our love 
most entirely. 

" He was graciously permitted to exercise his rea- 
son to the very \asl, ^ixvOi %\\o\\«^^\v^\^'a.'?. vW b«ut 



JABI£8 BRAINEBO TAYLOR. 419 

of his mind by his dying speech : Strive ! strive ! to 
enter into the kingdom of heaven. 

" How mysterious this event! Since it has appeared 
to me inevitable that one so prepared for the minis- 
try, and so desirous to be useful as our dear brother 
was, should die, the thought has often occurred to me 
that there are services for very holy and devoted 
men in a higher sphere, to which they are called, and 
where they do incomparably more for the glory of the 
divine Redeemer, and are more useful than they could 
possibly be on earth : and while we are wondering 
that they should be cut off, and disappoint all our hopes 
of their usefulness, they probably do more in a day, in 
heaven, than they could do in a lifetime in this world. 
The Master had use for our brother gbove, and called 
for him. We would have kept him here. I confess 1 
never have seen a young man whom I so much wished 
should live. 

" But why should he come here, far from home, to 
die? On his passage to heaven, God sent him by this 
place, that it might be seen here what a young minis- 
ter ought to be, and how a Christian can suffer and 
die. And perhaps you have thus been permitted to do 
more for us than could be done with money. 

'^ Dear brother 1 I sympathize with you and your af- 
flicted relations. May the Lord Jesus Christ be with 
your spirit. 

" Most affectionately yours, John H. Rice." 

The following letter is from Mrs. Rice to Mr. Tay* 
tor's mother : 

** VnUm l%eo. Sem. AprU 3, 1899. 
^Ul can in the least d^ee alle^iAXe xVa vscvqtw ^ 



420 MEMUtB OF 

the dear moUier of my belored friend, most gladly ViL 
1 do it ; aad your afflicted son,* who does ns the h 
vor of remaining awhile with us, thinks a letter from 
me would he some comfort to you. If mingling my 
heart with yours, and feeling all a mother's beresTe 
ment could lessen the weight of your grief, then would 
it indeed be lightened. 

^' I regret exceedingly that I did not every day set 
down all that was interesting in relation to my dear 
happy sufferer. But much, I trust, is engraved ob 
my memory and on my heart, never to be foi^tten or 
neglected. I have indeed been most highly privileged, 
and am sincerely thankful to our Heavenly Father for 
sending to my care so precious a child of his. He 
seemed from the first to come as a blessing to me, and 
to raise my idea of holy living and of Christian enjoy- 
ments. He ever seemed happy, joyful, triumphant, 
until disease wore down his animal spirits. But his 
faith, hope, peace, never for a moment failed, but con- 
tinued perfect to the last. I inquired shortly before he 
left us, the state of his mind, when he replied : * Per- 
feet peace ; but too weak to think or talk.' When he 
found he must die from you, he wept much, and griev- 
ed at the thought of your sorrow. *Dear father! dear 
mother ! what would 1 not do to comfort yon,' he 
would often say ; ' but my Heavenly Father is plea- 
sed to have it so, and I love to please him.' He did 
mdeed delight more in the love of Qod, and in doing 
his will, than any one I have ever seen. He spoke of 
his removal as if going on a foreign mission. Ha 
loved to serve his Lord wherever he appointed hinif 
and hoped to be engaged in the delightful work for 

. *il brother of the dec«iJM^^>DA^vi^^\a^'«^BidiGikV^iM. 



JAMC8 BRAINERD TATLOA. 481 

ever. He often spoke of rest for his poor body ; but 
his happy spirit longed to serve and please his Hea- 
venly Father perfectly. He often spoke of seeing yea 
all soon, and of welcoming you to a better virorld^ 
never more to part. He is not, my dear madam, lost 
even to us : if we live as he did, we shaU again enjoy 
sweet intercourse with him. His words, ^ My friend 
for eternity ^^ have made a deep impression upon my 
heart. O ! that his mantle may rest on me and on 
this seminary. 

" My grandmother lost a daughter in the state of 
Kentucky. To some it was matter of surprise that 
she bore the bereavement so calmly and cheerfully. 
She remarked, 'Heaven is not as far from me as Ken- 
tucky. I shall soon join her. She had much to suf- 
fer in this world ; now she is perfectly happy ; and 
why should I grieve V 

" My grandmother never expected to see her child 
again had she lived, but you and your dear son did ex- 
pect to meet again on earth, and he enjoyed much the 
thought of introducing us to each other. Bat his joys 
are now far above mortal conception. O had we but 
a glimpse of his glory, we should adore and praise 
• the Lord, and not repine. He did not finish his 
course among strangers, thougji far from home. Many 
saw, admired, and loved him, and to me he was in- 
expressibly dear — I may say t9, for I know he still 
exists, glorious and happy. You are the blessed mo- 
ther of a son safe in heaven. We rejoice that on his 
way there he called at the Seminary, and gave a new 
impulse to holiness of life among us. He had a tedi- 
oas, exhausting time of suffering, and I felt, for weeksi 

08 if going through the dark vaVLe^ VwV \v\\!c^> ^"^ 

3^ i.^,'^%.'i>««- 



4S3 JlBMoift OP 

the light of God's eannMithi^il$^0Wt.M^ 
md snstain him. Siieh a lorely i^it it nrely kDovi 
on earth ; and'now ho is gone to a more genial eline. 
He who DOTer em has ordered alb 

*' Yours, very afiebtioilialely, A. 8. R." 

Of the letters received hj Mr. Taylor's lektioai^ 
while coileeting the materials for this memoir, wo ia- 
sort the following from thb Rer. Frederic W.'SMb' 
kiss: . . ' . 

«DMr8ir, ^ 

" Yours of the 84th Qltimo, endosing • letter Ima 
Dr. Rice, on the death of your brother, niy very dsar 
friend in Christ, is now before aie, moTiiig ea the 
deep feelings of my heart, and awakenii^ sorts <lf lbs 
tenderest recollections of my life. I had seen the obi- 
tuary notice, and the just and very appropriate remarits 
on his Christian character and peaceful de p arture; 
and after a short indulgence to the affeetionAte re- 
membrance, while dwelling on the dear name, we re- 
sorted to his letters to hold converse with that sainted 
spirit, ^ who being dead yet speaketh.' These letters 
will, according to your request, be transmitted by the * 
first friendly conveyance we can find. You will per- 
ceive they are a little sullied by the hands of maBy 
readers, but tbey will not be the less appreciated be- 
cause much used and often read. 

" Our first interview with your brother waa in my 
house, presenting me a letter of introduction from a 
reverend friend in the vicinity. There is a feature, a 
voice, a language, in a deep feeling Christian, wfalsk 
we sometimes ihvnk \* xoo ^V\^«^v t» \i« 



JAMES BRAINERD TATLOB. 4d3 

Thero was a religious sympathy then pervading oar 
hearts, which was ardently reciprocated on his part. 
We felt as if we had found a dear christian brother, 
and our hearts burned within us, and we never for a 
moment in our future acquaintance had reason to 
think or feel differently. It was a season of deep 
feeling among my people, and in my family too, when 
our intercourse commenced ; and in a very short time 
he seemed as a son and a brother in the best bonds ; 
and thus we ever esteemed him. Frequently he visit- 
ed us, and always he labored, and prayed, and exhort- 
ed among my people while with us, and will never 
be forgotten as one all devoted to the cause of lifting 
up souls to heaven. To how many he may have been 
a sweet savor of life I know not ; but I do believe his 
heavenly example, ardent prayers, and impressive 
conversation, were blessed to the conversion of some 
very near to me ; and who will one day, I believe, 
meet him in heaven, and hail him as Christ's chosen 
instrument of their eternal good. 

" To spend and to be spent in the service of Christ 
and for the salvation of souls was his all in all. Of- 
ten would he say, ' None but Christ : all for Christ.' 

^'He died as he lived, in the triumphs of that faith 
which could say, *Lord, when, where, and how thou 
wilt.' * Thy holy will, and thy whole will be done.' 
We lose the benefit of his life, but let us not lose the 
benefit of his death. His name is embalmed in the 
memory of many surviving friends ; and while the re- 
naembrance is precious, may we learn to be followers 
of him who through faith and patience inherits the 
promises. 



484 BOM oiR or 

'^With sympathy and reciprocated prayen, yonr 

friend and servant, 

" Frbderic W. Hotchkiss." 

Another minister of Christ, in forwarding some let- 
ters which he had received from Mr. Taylor, said: "I 
am rejoiced that you think of collecting his remains. 
It must do good — it cannot be otherwise." A third 
writes : " I am much pleased that a Memoir of James 
is to be written. I think it will be instrumental of 
great good. I never was acquainted with one of whose 
piety I had a more exalted opinion." A fourth says: 
''Your excellent brother came to my house when there 
was a powerful religious excitement among my peo- 
ple, and spent two weeks in animating professed 
Christians to greater efforts, and more humble and 
fervent prayer that they might grow in grace, and 
make greater attainments in the knowledge of our 
Lord Jesus Christ ; and in laboring for the conversion 
of sinners. I have no doubt he will find some among 
my people who will Jbe his joy and crown of rejoicing 
throughout eternity : and I am happy in the belief that 
some of my church will wear a brighter crown of 
glory than they would have done, if your brother had 
never come among them. I will only add, that we all 
loved and esteemed him as a faithful brother in Christ." 

Another pious and devoted friend, who was long 
and intimately acquainted with the departed saint, 
wrote : " I would beg leave to observe, that I think 
the lives of but few, if faithfully recorded, are calcu- 
lated, on the whole, to do much good to the religious 
world ; though they may have some valuable traits, 
and it may be vei^ ^;ca\\^^vcy^ to their surviving 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 4d5 

friends, yet the multiplication of such works has a ten- 
dency to weaken the force of those that are truly ex- 
cellent. I would not therefore encourage the publica* 
tion of the memoirs of any departed friend, unless his 
life had been very uncommon and calculated to ele- 
vate the standard of piety and usefulness. ThcU of 
our dear departed friend^ I think, was exactly of 
this kind,^^ 

We do not desire to multiply these testimonies to a 
wearisome length, and shall therefore conclude vrith 
short extracts from three others, from the most respect- 
able sources. The first is a letter from a man who 
had enjoyed Mr. Taylor's society often, and his friend- 
ship for several years, and had as ample opportu- 
nity to know him thoroughly as most of those who 
have given their testimony concerning him : 

" It will give my wife and myself sincere pleasure 
to contribute, in any way we can, towards the intend- 
ed Memoir, to render it as full and interesting as it 
should be. 

'* To place his character before the reader in all its 
variety of excellence, we think, will.be no easy mat- 
ter. To have any thing like a just impression of him 
ds he really was in life, would require that intimate 
knowledge of him which we were privileged to enjoy 
We can say that we never met with such sweetness 
of disposition, such a noble contempt of earthly things, 
such heavenlyHoiindedness, such entbe devotion of 
the whole being to his Qod and Savior, such earnest 
desire to promote his Master's cause, in bringing all 
within the sphere of his influence to the knowledge 
of the troth; and, united with all lUiA^^^^Tai «m^ 

36* 



426 MEMOIR or 

manners of such peculiar loveliness and grace, and a 
beauty and consistency of character, such as, to our 
mind, made him a more perfect model than we had 
ever known. 

" We believe there are those here, as well as in 
every place where he sojourned on earth, that feel they 
are under obligations to him which can never cease 
to bind them." 

The second is from a clergyman, in which we find 
this passage : " James B. Taylor labored with me five 
or six weeks, during a revival in T , in which be- 
tween twenty and thirty souls were hopefully convert- 
ed. During that time I was led to observe the man- 
ner and spirit of his conversation with young people 
on religious subjects. How winning and affectionate ! 
He could speak of the fearful looking for of judgment 
and fiery indignation,, without creating any antipathy 
to himself. Sinners were won by his sweet voice 
and christian courtesy whilst they trembled for their 
souls and felt the necessity of repentance. His words 
were all for his divine Master. I never knew him 
trifle ; he allowed himself indeed no relaxation whilst 
here. He labored till he was obliged, through fatigue 
and weakness, to desist ; and then his only wish was 
to recruit, that he might renew his efforts in the ser- - 
vice of his Redeemer. Could ministers be found as 
unremitting and ardent as he was, few, where the Gros- 
pel is preached, would be left without convictions at 
least, if not hopefully converted, through such instru- 
mentality." 

The last is from the Rev. Dr. Miller, of the Theo- 
iogical Seminary at Punceton. "I do hope," says^ 
Dr. M, "that the Memorial ^^ V^\%\«\wt\ ^\Awi.^ 



lAMEa BBAIKERD TAVLOE. 4S7 



cellent youth which you propose la have erected, will 
be long a useful moQument for cBudidaies foe the holy 
miaiatry. IfhU heavenly spirit should be held forth 
as it ought to be, it cannot fail lo benefit the sons of 
the church, who ate looking forward to thai sacred 

" 1 hare a growing conviction that we need nothing 
in our rising miniairy more than deep scriptural spiri- 
tuality. If we had larger measures of that ardent 
ihirst for the eternal welfare of our fellow-men, ■ 
more inextinguishable desire to win souls to Christ, 
such as our devoted brother had, it would be a pledge 
of brighter days for our American Zioa." 



CONCLUSION. 

In bringing to a close this woric, valuable to thii 
compiler at least, it may be useful briefly to surrey 
the chuacter of Mr. Taylor in the relations which 
he sustained, and in the several situations in which ht 
was placed by the providence of God, that the force 
of his example maybe concenlraled, audita imprev 
sions received by those who may sustain the like re- 
lations and be in pursuit of the same objects. 

1. Then let him be contemplated as a Christun , 
and in this contemplation let it be recollected, that 
v«ry early after bis coDversiou he adopted the fesolo- 
lion to become an uncommon Chiiititn. 

This resolution, deliberately formed, and with full 
persuasion of ite praeticability, teems to hare been 
ticted on with remarkable conaiatency and peraevei- 









MiM and with ilwt aMitioit>r dwMeter/^w^^ 
wiiwh nothiag^of law— mean iiTtor be a^MAipfisM. 
And in order to iti fidfillment, tebeiodc himself to tbe 
Bible with the dodUtf ^ a little child, aad witk 
strong eoafidenee in the fhiihfiilneM of God. Belief* 
ing that '^the liCeof Godin the tool of man" haa its 
infancy and its growth to matnrtCy^i ancl thai what- 
ever attainments may hare been made^ the ^gnaam of 
God and the fdhiess <tf graee that is in Christ Jtsns 
.warrant the expectation of still hf^ierntcahinieaiii|— 
Mr. Taylor, with the most cobottnendable difigsaee, 
used the means by which aloneeneh espeemtioas can 
be realized. With constancy lie searched fl^^ ttn^ 
tores— not for subjects of specnlatidn^-notaa ia mere 
intellectual exerdse— but with a strong iihaiie to as- 
certain what i&fibclioas ought to-be' eheiishedy and 
what duties performed. In the Bible, as iaa mirroi^ 
he looked at himself; and in the light of the Bible- he 
contemplated every object that claiined his atteatioa 
or solicited his affections. He was indeed a Bible 
Christian. Perhaps no one ever more implicitly sub- 
jected his whole being to the inspired word. 

Regarding the |Hromises as sure, he desired and 
sought with irrepressible ardor those divine communi- 
cations which the Lord Jesus vouehsaies to his fol- 
lowers in measures prqportioaed to the strength ef 
their faith, the fervor of their prayersjand their Mth- 
fulness in duty. He believed it to he the privil^ of 
the saints to Uve in the li§^t of the divine eoonte- 
nance. And whenever, through inadvertenee, er the 
rising of sinful thoughts, or the movemoit of tnego- 
lar desires, or the neglect of duty, a cloud can 
bU soul, he ceased xiowo W\sSi^ViiaMA\£^tA 



JiLMES BRAINEBD TA.YLOR. 429 

in secret places, to wrestle, and even agonize in 
prayer, until the joy of God's salvation was restored 
and the comforts of the Holy Ghost were again afford- 
ed. And when in uninterrupted communion with 
God, he did not, as is too often the case, rest satisiied, 
but his neart still panted for more grace, more light, 
and faith, and love — more of every thing that might 
elevate his piety and increase his moral power. Nor 
did Mr. Taylor's religion expend itself in the raptures 
of devotion or in the delights of heavenly contempla- 
tion. Its sweet savor was manifested in all the rela- 
tions he sustained. 

Perhaps few persons have ever discovered more of 
filial piety or fraternal love. And while these affec- 
tions flowed out in all his correspondence, and in all 
his intercourse with his family, and in all respects 
were tempered and sweetened by his religion, yet, ve- 
neration for his parents and respect for the senior mem- 
bers of the household never for a moment restrained 
him from urging upon them the paramount claims of 
his Master, but always in a manner most earnest, ten- 
der, and respectful. 

Nor did he content himself with efforts to augment 
the piety of those to whom he was bound by the ties 
of nature. In all his intercourse with the saints, and 
in his voluminous correspondence with Christian 
friends, his constant aim was, either by testifying of 
the grace of Grod to himself, or by direct exhortations 
to stimulate them also to becoine uncommon Chris- 
tians. " Set your standard high," was his frequent 
enarge — '^ There remains yet very much land to be 
possessed." 

The abiding conviction upon Mr. Tft.'^lot'^ xaa?^* 



480 



(and eerttinlf it aeeohM wM tfnllb,) wmij' Atf 
CfariitiiDB genodlf litt hw befaur their {ffivifafii. 
Ani to thif eaue 1m ftttrihnted-iimdi of tlMir iMfr 
cieney in promoting the inteietti of tbe RedooMi^ 

kingdom. 

It is indeed « lementition, end ehtllbe Ssdm knee- 
tation, that the chnreh i* pntslyted'fiir tiie want of 
that Tigor of life, whieh ii witUa the iwudi of ell in 
whom the principle of Titality bet Been impleiited lif 
the Holy Qhost. This eTil Mr. Teykr eaweftd felt ; 
and while he leaolTed thiit, by the gieee of Qo^ it 
should nt>t eiiit in hit own eeae, egejnet it be teflni 
and wrote, prayed end utedj and ttJDfwitbdec aooM 
encouraging suceese. 

His Christian chemeter was a beaatiftil wboie not 
indeed ahsolately perfeet-*to this he made noptem- 
tions— yet as near the fair proportions in winch it is 
drawn in the word of God as can almost erer be 
found in this imperfect state. And in thia respect his 
example is most worthy of imitation. 

It is indeed melancholy to obsenre how frequently 
the fair form of Christianity appears in an aspect so 
forbidding as rather to repel than allure the multitude, 
who have no knowledge of her but what they den? e 
from the spirit, conversation, and conduct of her pro- 
fessed friends. As exhibited by some, she appeers in 
the form of a cold and heartless orthodoxy, with a 
head filled with notions which have no influence in 
refining the afiecticms or regulating the pmetice. In 
others, with an eye of fire and a tongue sharpened 
with bitter words, ready to denounce all who are not 
actuated by the same burning zeal — a zeal jonmiti^- 
led by the meekneM oIl Vi«a^%^V| ^wVsAma. la. otben 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 431 

again, she appears all deformed with passion-^all 
ecstasy in the religious assembly — all tenderness in 
the hour of excitement — but in the world, morose, 
sensoriouS) proud, selfish, and dogmatical. 

Such was not the religion of James B. Taylor. 
His faith worked by love, purified the heart, and 
overcame the world. His was the wisdom that comes 
from above — first pure, then peaceable, gentle, and 
easy to be entreated ; full of mercy and good fruits, 
without partiality and without hypocrisy ; and ever 
brought ibrth the fruits of the Spirit — love, joy, peace, 
long-sufiiering, gentleness, goodness, fidelity, meek- 
ness, temperance. 

But there were some traits in this lovely character 
which ought to be noticed with more distinctness, 
not only because of their beauty, but because there is 
a deplorable deficiency in most of those who bear the 
name of Christ, and in some measure possess the 
mind that was in him. These were spirituality and 
humility : the latter resulting, as it always does in 
man sanctified but in part, from the former. "His 
spirituality," says Dr. M., in a letter from which an 
extract has been already made, " was so uniform, that 
we had only, as it were, one face, and that of intense 
brightness, to behold." Spirituality is the habit of a 
soul illuminated by the truth, and sanctified, throug-h 
that truth, by the Spirit of God. Such an one employs 
his thoughts and exercises his affections with facility 
and with lively interest on spiritual objects. He sets 
the Lord always before him, apprehends the law of 
God in its cognizance of the inner man, and feels and 
acts under a sense of its obligations. Jesus Christ is 
present by the Spirit with his heart, is aeea ivi h.\jk 



bMnty, n W h inteed to in his aulLoriiy, and in alM» 
trngt^ ftrnlvatioD, and loved as " the cliiefesi among 
ten' tbcMMDd." 

No cue eta lemd the letter!) and jourDal of James B. 
Taykir,'' mild DM perceire ihat spiritual thiols wete 
the reiy eleiMTtt of his soul ; — of them he ilioughi, 
andwiota^ and tilhtd ; and, in all situations, he acteil 
in iflfertDee to tbAa and under their influence. 

One efiect Qf tlua ^raoioiis habit ol' mind was bn- 
inility,~withoDt wUeh dtwe taa be do geaoiiw nSi^Bh. 
JenuCbnstim meek 'Mid lowlf in heart, uid iMtf* 
eui faaTe lecmed of Um iriltiimf imbitnag ihW ' 
measDie of thisezeellent grwie. Withratlt thannaf 
be ardor in raligim; aoft tfaen wiU bb eeM', CBted'oot, 
if not heard, the err^^ Come^ eee my xtel for &■ |iOii 
of hostt." ' And in -Ub da j- oT'i^eilM^tat, whM «r«- 
ry ihiog; must be done with atrong feeling and Tigor- 
oiu action, it is painfol to obscrre how mtieh, tbal 
commenda itself to the spirit of the age, is either sadlf 
deficient, or wholl)' destitnte of the brightest glory of 
the religion of a sinner eared hj grace. 

He is an htmble maa who fonns • just eslimete at 
his own eharacler, as he weighs himself in the ba- 
lance of the sanetuBTf, and feels aright the force of 
his own judgment of himself. He coiii|)ares kimaeli^ 
not with those aronnd faim, whom he may think or see 
to be less perfect than hiniself,bntwith thelawof God, 
and with the holy example of Jesns, which is the 
law practically eihtbited for the imitation of hia fol- 

That James B. Taylor was diatingDished by bia hv 
raility cannot be questioned. Living as be did, erwy 
Say, ia, the ptemiM o£ <iQ^i -ndbM4 mA faU ; wid 



JAUES BBAINEitD TAVLOR. 433 

looking nt hhnself habitually, in the light of God's 
truth and holioess, he saw, as in a poHshed mirror, the 
defects in his own cbarncter, and took cheerlully hia 
place in tjie dusi. At those seasons when be enjoyed 
most of the divine presence, and the brightest mani- 
festations of the glory of God, we always find him 
taking the lowest place, and like Job, saying, " I have 
heard ol'lheeby the beating of the ear; but now mine 
eye seelb thee : wherefore I abhor myself, and re- 
pent in dust and ashes." But not only did his humility 
show itself in his communion with Qod, but in his 
intercourse with men. He was ever leady to render 
honor to whom honor is due, so that when those of 
age and experience would interpose to temper his ar- 
dor and to regulate his course, he would respectfully 
and meekly hear, and seriously consider; and if their 
counsel comtnended itself to his understanding and 
his conscience, be would cheerfully yield, and that too, 
when compliance was lashed with the most painful 
self-denial : and if, in the impetuosity of bis feelings, 
he had taken his course, he would, on conviction of 
his mistake, promptly retrace his steps with ingenuous 
confession of his error. Nor did be, as far as appears, 
ever treat any one with that contempt or even disre- 
spect which is the oflspring of pride. His sense of 
propriety and bis humility seemed ever to restrain him 
from rudely denouncing those whose zeal and devoted- 
ness were apparently less than his own. 

Very nearly allied to humility u gentleness ; a Chris- 
tian grace, an ornament, which gives softness and 
lovelinesa to all the reit. In tbic our dear Christian 
brother so excelled, that noDe feared him, none wei-e 
repelled from bim, and he found eaiv ac««u to t.l&« 
37 VB.^»,\«- 



434 MEMOIR OF 

hearts even of those who would otherwise avdid his 
company from hatred to his holiness. 

The attentive reader has doubtless already observed 
that the great means by which Mr. Taylor made such 
distinguished attainments in piety, were the Bible, as 
noticed before, and the throne of grace. He was re- 
markably a man of prayer. In secret devotions he 
had his consecrated place and his fixed time ; nor 
would he allow any thing to interfere with this arrange- 
ment. And as he did himself, so he exhorted others to 
do: ^^ Have a fixed place and time for deyotion." 

2. Let us contemplate this eminent saint in his 
CONDUCT AS A 8T0DENT ; and in this, perhaps, as much as 
in any other respect, he has left an instructive example. 

Too often the complaint has been made — and ofien- 
er the efiect has been seen and lamented — that an aca- 
demical collegiate life has damped the ardor of piety, 
or greatly diminished its power. Indeed the impres- 
sion has been deep and disastrous, that this is the 
necessary effect of a course of study in our public 
literary institutions. Such have been the facts, as tu 
create a prejudice in many pious minds against a col- 
lege education. The incorrectness of this impression, 
capable, a priori, of being proved, has been practically 
demonstrated by the Christian student whose course 
we are reviewing. 

Mr. Taylor, aware of the existence and of the bad 
eflects of this notion, entered upon his course of studies 
with his resolution fixed and his rules adopted; by a 
strict adherence to which he was efiectually secured 
against the influence of that esprit du corps, and those 
unholy associations, which have so often and so sadly 
'mpaired the sticnglK oC ^\et^ ia those who had gone 



Upon enieiing college, he resolved lo perform his 
duties ia tbe fotlowing order: 

1. Take care of the »ul. 
S. Take care of the bodf. 
3. Take care of hi> itudici. 

By obserriag this order — giiiag to reading the Bi ble 
and prayer a due portion of lime, and always seeking 
unlit he enjoyed communion with heaven, he ever kepi 
alive the Same of love ; so that, at the close of his col- 
legiate course of studies, lie said to a frieod, " I have, 
while in college, enjoyed much of the presence of Qod. 
The years 1 have spent in Nassau Hall will long be 
remembered as sweet seasons of communioa with tbe 
Holy Ghost, aiid of special manifestations of the love 
of God." 

And as to the second rule, his conduct was wise 
and exemplary. Too often, young men, ardent in their 
thirst for knowledge, or in haste to get into the field 
of action, or oppressed with the languor consequent 
upon mental labor and sedentary life, so neglect that 
regular exercise which is essential to health, that they 
come out unfit for service, or go down to an early 
grave. 

On this interesting topic it is obvious to remark, that 
man is a compound being — that he is made up of an 
. animal, intellectual, and moralnature, neither of which 
can be neglected with impunity. In all these respects 
food and exercise must he supplied regularly, and iu 
proper kind and measure, or a weak and sickly habit 
will be induced, destructive both of happiness and 
usefulness. 

With this natural constitution, and tbe sure con- 
sequences of neglecliug it full in riew, i» iiwA^'a'** 



436 MEMOIR OF 

iy astonishing that in so few of our literary iostitatioiis 
provision is made for thai physical education so essen- 
tial to the wel] being of the animal nature ? And is 
ii not more surprising still, that men professing to be 
philosophers should endeavor to exclude from our 
schools that moral training — that religious culture, 
without which no man will ever act well his part io 
those relations for which education is designed to pre- 
pare him ? 

It is true, that, in the inscrutable providence of God 
Mr. Taylor's health began to fail just after the com- 
pletion of his college education, so that he was not 
permitted to enjoy the high satisfaction which he so 
ardently desired in preaching the Gospel. But still it 
is worthy to be remembered, that to the end of the 
course he enjoyed good health. Nor did his studies 
sufiTer at all by a rigid adherence to his rules. 

3. But as a candidate for the ministry, his conduct, 
though not pretended to be perfect, is above all praise. 

For religion's sake ; for the sake of the holy name by 
which he was called ; for the joy of the Lord which 
was his strength ; he sought for and made great attain- 
ments in the divine life : but never did he seem to lose 
sight of the influence which his piety would have upon 
his ministerial character and usefulness. To be very 
" holy and wise " was the burden of his prayers. Holy 
and wise, that he might win souls to Jesus Christ, in 
all his ways please the Lord, and be fully prepared for 
the purity and blessedness of heaven. 

No one could more fully recognize the dependence of 
man upon the grace of God thai, did Mr. Taylor. In his 
prayers, letters, diary, and conversation, he acknow- 
ledged the necesaVt^j o^ ^Vi^ ^^\\IC% iofl-uences. He 



JAMES BRAINERD TAYLOR. 437 

not only believed, but gloried in the doctrine of divine 
sovereignty ; yet he never once entertained the perni- 
cious notion that these truths could either excuse inac- 
tivity, or lessen responsibility, or diminish the impor- 
tance of employing means adapted to the end to be 
accomplished in the Gospel economy. God has indeed 
most wisely iited the means to the end, both in the 
kingdom of nature and that of grace, leaving in botb 
ample scope for the exercise of all the skill and dili- 
gence that man can use to bring to pass his benevo- 
lent and gracious purposes. 

' Under the cherished impression of this divine ar- 
rangement, Mr. Taylor seemed constantly to live-— 
and, with the conviction that holiness in the ministry 
afforded the best ground of hope, under God, of suc- 
cess, he with all earnestness, and perseverance, and 
self-denial, sought to become, and did become, emi- 
nently holy. Would to God that all who bear the 
sacred office were like-minded — that all who aspire to 
this office could be persuaded to walk as James B. 
Taylor walked, with God. 

Next to personal holiness, Mr. Taylor desired to be 
" mighty in the Scriptures," not only that he might be 
sanctified through the truth, but that he might draw 
thence things new and old, giving to every one a por- 
tion suited to his condition. "O to be mighty in the 
Scriptures," was his frequent petition at the throne of 
grace. And to this end he submitted himself to the 
usual course of mental diseipliae. He desired Aot lite- 
rary fame, nor the honor that comes from mea. It 
was the Bible he was to expound — ^its doctrines he 
was to preach — its precepts to inculcate— the whole 
counsel of God, as therein revealed^ he "ft^.^ xs^ ^ 

37* 



438 MEMOIR OP 

dare. And therefore, to a right understaudiog of the 
Bible he resolutely determined to devote all his attain- 
ments. And although, in the ardcr of his zeal to 
enter upon the great work for which he longed 90 ear- 
nestly, he wavered for a little season, as to the neces- 
sity of all that culture which in most cases is wisely 
required ; yet, having corrected this error of judgment, 
no man more deeply felt the importance of fall "pre- 
paration." For this he hoth labored industriously and 
]>rayed most earnestly. 

In addition to Mr. Taylor's persevering and suc- 
cessful efforts to increase in piety and in knowledge 
of the word of God, he deserves to be remembered and 
imitated in his intercourse with his fellow-men. Al- 
ways affable and obliging — noted for a deportment, 
the result of enlarged and active benevolence ; exceed- 
ingly social in his feelings, and polite and graceful in 
his manners ; yet he conscientiously avoided an intima- 
cy with those whose society neither promised benefit, 
nor afforded opportunities of usefulness ; but with the 
saints, the excellent of the earth, was his delight ; and 
the more spiritual any one appeared to be, the more did 
he seek and enjoy communion with him. And here 
it mattered nothing with Mr. Taylor what was the 
condition or the color of the saint. In every one who 
showed the heart of a true disciple he recognized a bro- 
ther or sister, and rejoiced to be an instrument in minis- 
tering to the edification and consolation of all those 
who loved the Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity. To this 
end he visited the sick — conversed with professors — 
wrote letters — held meetings for exhortation and pray- 
er, and used all the means he could employ to build 
up the kingdom of Chi\«i va xVv^ V^wXaoC Vv% ^ubi*»ct». 



JUI£S BBAINEBD TATLOK. HSO 

And while Mr. Taylor thus labored and prayed to 
promote growth in grace in the church, the burden of 
hia prayers and labofB was far the converrion oj 
»oult. He had consecrated himself to the service of 
the Lord, the glory of his nenie, and the advance- 
ment of his cause. And not only in his intercourse 
and correspondence with his fellow-men did he endea- 
vor to strengthen the interests of piety in those who 
were under its inQuence, but by all means, if possible, 
to gain some from the ranks of the enemy. Actuated 
by this zeal for the divine glory, and compassion fot 
perishing sinners, be sought and seized every opportu- 
nity to beseech men, in Christ's stead, to be recon- 
ciled to God. This he did in his private intercourse — 
in the family circle ; and, with the sanction of pastors 
and otber ministers, in many churches, and with un- 
common acceptance and success. Bo ihat while pursu- 
ing his studies, he was made the instrument of bring- 
ing, perhaps, more persons lo the knowledge of thtf 
truth, as it is in Jesus, than others have done in the min- 
istrations of many years. During his sickness many 
letters came to him, expressive of the most devoted 
attachment, and reminding him of the blessing which 
had, in several places, attended his labors of love. 
His object was not wealth nor fame, but souls — souls; 
his constant cry was, "Give me souls!" 

There is one further particular which, it has occur- 
red to us, may be introduced with some advantage to 
«tudent3 of theology. Many of Mr. Taylor's correspon- 
Jenta were young females — and in his labors hemnst 
often have come in contact with persons of this de- 
«cription calculated to awaken tender emotions; yet !■ 
•It bis letters, and in all his diary, there is no avidanm 



440 MEMOIR or 

that lie ever approached that entangling, and often em- 
barrassing alliance, which so often impedes the pro- 
gress of students, and too frequently presses as an in- 
cubus upon all their after-life and labors. 

On the contrary, we find in his diary a passage 
already quoted, which shall here be cited again : " Not 
knowing what the Lord has for me to do, I am kept 
from what, perhaps, would be as pleasant to me as to 
another; and at which some have been led to wonder. 
Some may think me stoically indifferent to the con- 
nubial state : but this restrains me from taking any 
steps in that matter — I fear to act prematurely. When 
it is clearly one's duty to seek such a connection, will 
not a prudent wife come from the Lord ? I wish 
that mmjf^e?^^ would see well to it, that they obtain in 
their companions an increase of power to help on with 
their work." 

The importance of the marriage relation, as a source 
of happiness or misery, is perfectly obvious. But this 
matter, as it bears upon the character and usefulness of 
a minister of the Gospel, is beyond all computation. 
None who has not had experience, or made observa- 
tion on this subject, can tell how much a minister's 
standing may be affected, how much his work may be 
promoted or hindered, by the character and deportment 
of his wife. 

How inconsiderate I how unwise the conduct of 
many young men, and young ministers perhaps ytU 
pursuing their preparatory studies, who have no borne 
nor field of labor — often no patrimony ; who '* know 
not what the Lord has for them to do ;" who hare not 
finished their theological course. Let those who 
aspire to this high caUin^ learn wisdom from the lolly 




LOR. 441 

of inany of their bTeloren who have gone before them, 
and " fear to act prematurely?' 

We closie by quoting from the obituary notice pab- 
lished soon after his decease,-i-whai, in Eubataoce, has 
been said before; 

" Mr. Taylor was a young man admirably fitted to 
be useful in the ministry. To a line person, a pleasant 
countenance, expressive of the benevolence of his sou], 
a sweet, yet powerful voice, and a cultivated mind, 
be added piety, humility, zeal, and devoiedn^ss to his 
profession, such as are rarely ever observed united in 
one individual. 

" How mysterious ! thai in the present urgent wants 
of the church, one so gifted and qualified should be 
cut down just after he became ready to enter the pul- 
pit. But perhaps he was called for to perform higher 
services for his Master in the church triumphant than 
can be rendered by mortal man in this militant slate. 
And we shall see hereafter, that all things io regard 
to him were ordered well by that Lord and Savior 
to whom he had consecrated himself in soul, bod/ 
and spirit, for time and eternity." Amen. 



STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES ■ 
STANFORD AUXILIARY LIBRARY ^ 
STANFORD, CALIFORNIA 94305-6004 
|650) 723-9201 






jll.s 



All books ore subject to 
DATE DUE 



anFofd.edu 



3II. 



i 



